DRY PRODUCTS 
tobacco / flower
Grinder - shark teeth / diamond / steel pin / pollen catchers 
	Multi-layer grinders are a tobacco smoker’s accessory.  If you use a 2-layer grinder that is great but you lose any trichrome (aka kief/ pollen). The 3-layer grinder is considered to be one of best purchases as you can finely ground your product, and have a screen that separates your larger pieces, from your pollen.  
Papers - what is it (wood, pulp, rice, hemp, flax) - RAW - VEGAN
organic (hemp - slower burning) - RAW - VEGAN
 rice (thin, can be difficult to grip, quick burning) - ELEMENT
 flavored, wired, clear, cone/ rolling machines / cone fillers
Hemp wick – a hemp based and often beeswax coated wick that you light with a lighter.  One would than use the wick to light their tobacco.  Hemp wick does not hold any butane from being lite.  It also burns at a better temperature for your product.  Hemp wick is a great way to remove more toxins from your smoking sessions, and provide a more flavorful experience.
pipes - wood/ zeps/ metal/ onies/ novelty/ glass/ water/ plastic/ etc...
       screens - brass/ stainless/ glass
        cleaning products – see product guide
Dry Vaporizers - 
health benefits -pretty much anything you can do to not be directly inhaling butane into your lungs is a health benefit.
convection vs. conventional - 
	Convection is the newest and most effective way to dry vape.  similar to ovens the heats swirl around your product with a more even heat. 
Portable models vs. home models – personal preference
- changing the tank on your mod to dry or concentrate – we have a nice selection of available tanks that can work with your mod.  See product guide.
      
Concentrate
Concentrates are made by blasting marijuana with butane.  In doing so the butane strips it of it’s cannabinoids.  The mixture is than set aside to evaporate, hoping to remove as much butane as possible.  The danger here is if you don’t know what you are doing you can set a fire or blow up yourself.  
Butane? How bad is it? Butane enters the body through the pulmonary system, thus immediately entering the blood stream.  Mild butane inhalation can cause agitation, seizures, headache, dizziness, and increases your risk of cardiac failure. Repeated abuse can cause mental impairment, and central nervous system damage.  
Concentrate uses a different kind of water pipe, commonly called a rig.  Any water pipe can be turned into a rig with the proper attachments, rigs need a torch to hit the proper temperature.  More commonly there are concentrate pens, and the Dip Stick available that do not need to be torched.  These also are more portable.  
Concentrate pens usually have the option of a few different styles of coils.  These include: wick (this is an outdated style), quartz or dual quartz (usually kanthal or titanium wrapped), ceramic (kanthal or titanium wrapped rod or donut style).  
Storage – concentrate is primarily stored in silicone containers.  It can also be stored in wax / parchment paper.

DEFINATIONS
PIPE - hollow cylinder - styles - spoons, chillums, Sherlock, steamrollers, bubblers
SLIDE - the bowl part of a water pipe 
DOWNSTEM - tube that channels smoke from bowl to water, can be removable or fixed 
DIFFUSER DOWNSTEM - a down stem with holes to break the smoke into bubbles and allow for a smoother hit, can be removable or fixed.
ASHCATCHER aka PRE-COOLER - additional chamber to hold smoke and catch ash.  usually has a percolator inside. keeps pieces cleaner by catching ash.
ICE PINCH - point in pipe where tube narrows to allow ice to be caught.  cools smoke.
PERCOLATOR - device with slit or holes having smoke to break up into smaller bubbles, creating more surface area of smoke to be cooled by the water.  this is called diffusion.
CARBON FILTER - basically they replace ash catchers.  carbon filters out 97% of the carcinogens & toxins providing for a healthier smoother hit.
KECK CLIPS - aka K CLIPS - HOLD ATTACHMENTS TO PIECES
SHOWERHEAD - style of percolator.  smoke channeled to center of disc than out the slits on side.
GONG- glass on glass
TUBE -     pipe where water filled chamber & mouth piece are in a straight cylindrical tube
BEAKER - pipe where water chamber flares out into a bubbles or conical shape that is wider than the mouthpiece.
STEMLESS - stem is a part or the pipe or rig
SPLASH GUARD - glass barrier with in pipes mouthpiece that prevents water from traveling up mouthpiece
DRAG - resistance when hitting
TYPES OF PERCOLATORS
DOME - small upward stem is enclosed by a glass dome with slits at its base.  smoke travels from chamber below - up through the stem - into dome through slits.  VARIATIONS: SHOWERHEAD, SHOWERCAP, INVERTED SHOWERHEAD
INVERTED DOME - cylinder shaped perc with slits around the base.  the stem is connected to top of cylinder
TREE - one large stem in the center of the perc that splits off into many (4-64) small downward facing slitted stems (referred to as arms) means more diffusion but also more drag
DISC - flat disc shaped perc.  usually in the water pipes tube.  usually having holes or slits arranged in a pattern.  VARIATIONS: honeycomb, ratchet, waffle, sunflower, fritted, turbine
CIRC - stem that flares into a wide cylindrical shape at its base, with many slits around its perimeter.  VARIATIONS UFO, showerhead stem.
MATRIX - tall cylindrical perc with many holes arranged in a checkerboard, or gridded, fashion around its perimeter known as a grid or birdcage.   
INLINE - perc found on stemless pieces.  it's a long horizontal tube with upward or downward facing slits along it.   VARIATIONS: GRIDDED INLINE, STEMLINE, NETLINE.
BARREL - a perc that is shaped like a barrel tipped onto its side.  usually found at the base of a fixed stem, and have slits around the perimeter of both their ends.
SCOOBY CATCHER - slang for extended internal piece of glass along the mouth piece that catches ash or debris going through your pipe.
GRINDER - cylinder with varied styled teeth to finely ground your dry product

DAB RIG & CONCENTRATE TERMS
BHO – butane hash oil
DAB RIG - vapor rig, oil rig, or concentrate pipe.  has a male, rather than female joint.  this is so you can apply an oil dome (which has a female joint) & nail to it for oil.  Any piece can be converted with a proper slide.  Smaller less percolated pieces are recommended for getting the most out of your product.  
OIL DOME aka VAPOR DOME - glass dome with female joint.  used on an oil rig in combination with nail.  the dome traps the vapor so it can be inhaled.
NAIL - can be glass, ceramic, titanium, or quartz.  fits into small hole of male joint so an oil dome can still fit over it.  oils / concentrates are applied to the surface after heating.
    TITANIUM - 
        Heats in 15-25 seconds - long heat retention - not food or medical grade material so these nails need to be seasoned (see below) - not the best for flavor - these never breakdown but may oxidize over time
    CERAMIC - 
        Heats in 30 seconds or longer - hold heat the longest amount of time - is both food and medical grade quality - have good flavor for the little heat retention - prone to heat stress, which weakens the durability 
    QUARTZ - 
        heats in 5-10 seconds - not very long heat retention - both food and medical grade, also releases no harmful gases - use to receive the best flavor - can easily break
DOMELESS NAIL - let’s say this speaks for itself
REVERSE SLIDE - aka FEMALE SLIDE - slide with female joint to be used for oil rig.  allows for tobacco and herbs to be smoked
DABBER - dab tool - usually made of glass, titanium, stainless steel
CARB CAP - concentrate accessory that allows you to take low temperature dabs.  glass, ceramic, titanium.               a carb cap allows you to heat the nail to a lower temperature for true vaporization.  low heat nail to puddle concentrate than cap and slow inhale.  the cap will retain heat and the carburetor hole in the carb cap creates a vortex of air which assists in the spreading & thinning oil to ensure nothing is wasted.
SKILLET - a rig attachment where you heat a titanium pad attached to a swing arm to the desired temp, swing under a bell or curve, and apply dab.  This way tends to be less favorable as you lose vapor.  
BUCKETS (aka HONEY BUCKETS) - bucket shaped concentrate attachments for your rig.
BANGERS - refers to quartz attachments for your rig.
SEASONING - for new nails.  can be done to any type of nail but usually referring to titanium. This is the process of heating the new nail, usually to between 600 - 800, and "painting" with a small layer on the nail.  It is the polymerization of the materials within your concentrate which will form a thin "season" layer within the open pores of the heated nail. 
        WHY SEASON YOUR NAIL?  It can wash off toxins, polishes, or other machine oils.  This process builds a natural thin layer to enhance product flavor, and helps prevent oxidation.

TEMPERATURE CHART - all temperatures are listed in Fahrenheit
410 is the way to go 
365 recommended for those vaping for health reasons
Compound temperatures - 
THC - 315    CBD - 320-356    CBN - 365
If you vape below 356 you are mainly inhaling terpenes.  This is good if you are looking for a less intense more awake high.
Never vape above 455.  You are burning product and inhaling the same toxins as during smoking.  




