Lotus Extracts Guide
What are Herbal Teas?
  For herbalists, the term "herbal tea" refers specifically to something that has been steeped for a shorter amount of time with hot or boiling water. This time frame is usually from a few minutes up to about 20 minutes. The brewing vessel is often covered during steeping to keep the volatile oils in the herbs from evaporating along with steam (so, for example, a mint teabag in a mug might have a saucer placed over it). Herbal teas are usually made from herbs with a lot of volatile oils and a strong flavor, such as chamomile, peppermint and cinnamon. It usually takes about a teaspoon or a tablespoon of dried or fresh, chopped herb to make a cup of herbal tea.
The term "herbal infusion" means something very different in herbalism. It refers to an herb that has been covered in boiling water and left to steep for a much longer period of time, usually four to ten hours. Herbal infusions are made with milder herbs (ones which contain a lower volatile oil content), such as stinging nettles, oat straw and red clover. These herbs are infused in much larger quantities than one would use for herbal teas, and using 1/4 ounce of dried herb for a cup of herbal infusion is pretty common.
In the world of tea, the terms "herbal tea" and "herbal infusion" are often used interchangeably. However, there is sometimes much attention paid to the fact that herbs are NOT the same as Camellia sinensis (the tea plant), and that herbal "teas" are not "true teas". Therefore, some people in the tea world prefer the term "herbal infusion" over "herbal tea", or they use the term "tisane" or "botanical" in its place.
Making herbal teas is good for extracting volatile oils from plant material. Making herbal infusions is good for extracting vitamins, minerals, proteins and other sources of nourishment from herbs.
http://coffeetea.about.com/od/Blog/fl/Infusions-vs-Teas.htm

What are herbal powders?
Any herbal substance reduced to a state of fine, loose particles by crushing, grinding, disintegration, etc. 
Herb powders are usually made from the entire herb plant, and or their seed meat.  This method is dehydration of and pulverization of the product.  


What are extract powders?

An extract is a substance made by extracting a part of a raw material, often by using a solvent such as ethanol or water. Extracts may be sold as tinctures or in powder form.
Extract powders are herb powders that have been fused with a resin of the same herb.  Commonly used by adding it to a beverage like orange juice, or soaking it in a wine or spirit to get a stronger effect.  These can also be used on concentrate vaporizers.

What are Resin Extracts? 
 
These contain the active ingredients or an herb in a concentrated form.  Usually alcohol (ethanol) is used during the extraction process.  Premium resins are produced without adding heat.  Commonly used by soaking it in a wine or spirit, or using a concentrate vaporizer.  Smoking resin is the LEAST effective method.  

What are Herbal e-liquids?

There are 2 types of herbal e-liquids.  The one would contain the essential oils of an herb, the other contains resin extracts.  Only the resin extracts contains the effective components such as alkaloids.  An e-liquid with 4% resin extract only requires a few puffs from your device to exterience an herb’s natural effects. 

Which herbal product is better?
This is a personal choice depending on what you are looking to receive from the product.  Loose plant materials like leaves and flowers are usually the mildest forms.  This would be followed by herbal powders, extract powders, and the most concentrated is resin extracts.  

How much herb is the “right” herbal amount?

The best way to find out the right amount is with personal experimentation.  Most herbal extracts require a low dosage, while a handful of leaves for a single cup of tea is often required to get the same natural effect.  It’s better to have no experience of an herbal from too low of a dosage, than to experience too much of its effects from too high of a dosage.  It’s best to invest a few days to experimentation, with slow increments in amounts.  It’s also important to have enough time in between sessions to avoid “doubling up”, and be able to find the amount that suits you.  



DSICLAIMER:  HOLY SMOKES is not responsible for what happens to you when you take these products.  Customers are recommended to do additional research before using any of the herbal products that are sold.  Customers should ask their physician about these products prior to taking them, especially if they are on ANY medications.  These are varied plants and herbs, many considered SACRED, in parts of the world for thousands of years.  Use with caution.  









BALA (Sida cordifolia)
Commonly used part: leaves.  Reported effects are : stimulaton, energizing, reduced pain, and raised sexual arousal.  Bala possesses potent antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anti-stress/ adaptogenic properties.  THIS HERB CONTAINS EPHEDRA.
A subshrub which is a native plant to the forests of the USA, Africa, India and Australia. The plant flourishes in high humidity and requires a steady amount of heat in order to grow into its most beneficial shape. The most beneficial part of the Bala is the flower, which helps reduce pain in chronic illnesses, improve the condition of neurological ailments and improves the production and help of neurons. The tea made from the leaves is most often used for the reduction of blood pressure and improvement of digestion. Both the oils and the tea of the Bala can easily be implemented into your everyday diet and are quick to show healthy results..  

SAFETY ISSUES: Contains small amounts of ephedrine alkaloids.  The amount of total alkaloids in bala plant by average dry weight is 1/15th of that found in ephedra.  Bala seeds, usually not commercially available, contain about four times as much of the alkaloids, about 1/4 of that found in ephedra, and so should not be used unless under the care of a professional health care provider (reported in Kapoor, 1990; reported in Huang, 1999).

STARTING DOSAGE: 
• Dried powder: two grams two times per day
• 4:1 concentrated powder extract: one gram two times per day

Bala is used as a tonic and to activate the function of the nervous system (Vata) by increasing blood circulation.  As a tonic, it increases the vital properties of the serum (plasma), which is very important for the nourishment of the cells, the strength of the healing power and the maintenance of immunity.  Following this effect, it has medicinal value in treating neuropathy related to any organ including the heart, brain, spinal cord, facial nerves and inner ear.  There is a gradual tissue-strengthening effect, most noticeable with increased wound healing after injury.  It is used to stimulate healing of dry painful joints in osteoarthritis.  TAM doctors also use it to heal the lung in tuberculosis, as well as for chronic bronchitis and chronic hemoptysis (spitting of blood).

TAM doctors use bala root to make various complex oil preparations.  These oils are used as external applications for various nervous sytem diseases, such neuropathies, facial paralysis, spasmodic coughing or asthma, vertigo, seizures, and menstrual cramps.  The oils are also used for rheumatic and arthritis pain.  Bala root is a major ingredient is the famous medicinal oil called narayana taila.
Despite serious safety concerns, Sida cordifolia is used to treat bronchial asthma, tuberculosis, colds, flu, swine flu, chills, lack of perspiration, headaches, nasal congestion, cough and wheezing, urinary infections, sore mouth, and fluid retention. It is also used for heart disease, stroke, facial paralysis, tissue pain and swelling (inflammation), sciatic nerve pain, insanity, nerve pain, nerve inflammation, ongoing achy joints (chronic rheumatism), and unwanted weight loss.

Some people use Sida cordifolia as a stimulant, painkiller, and tonic; and to increase urine production and raise sexual arousal. It is also used before and after cancerchemotherapy to speed recovery from the treatment.In combination with ginger, Sida cordifolia root is used for the type of fever that comes and goes.In combination with milk and sugar, Sida cordifolia root is used for urinary urgency and vaginal discharges.
ACACIA  (Acacia Confusa)
  5GRAMS FOR FULL EFFECT BUT THOSE NOT FAMILIAR MAY WANT TO START WITH A 2 GRAM DOSE
Commonly used part: root bark.  Reported effects are : stimulation, energizing, increased alertness, euphoria, and changing perception of colors and shapes.  THIS HERB CONTAINS DMT, NMT, AND OTHER TRYPTAMINES.
Acacia confusa or acacia petit feuille,small Philippine acacia, Formosa acacia (Taiwan acacia) and Formosan koa, is a perennial tree native to South-East Asia. The tree grows to a height of 15m and is commonly found in tropical Pacific areas, including Hawaii. In Burma, Laos and Thailand, the feathery shoots of Acacia are used in soups, curries, omelettes and stir-fries.The bark may be ground into a powder and saturated into water to create a tea, or may be spread onto various foods as a spice and taste enhancer. In Taiwan, the plant is used in traditional Chinese medicine for use in traumatic injuries, including ulcers, bleeding gums, canker sores, sore throats and skin diseases. The acacia plant has numerous phytochemicals which may have health benefits, including the inhibition of catabolic deamination.


DAMIANA (Tunera Diffusa)     
 5GRAMS FOR FULL EFFECT – THOSE NOT FAMILIAR WITH EFFECTS RECOMMENDED 2 GRAM DOSAGE TO START
Commonly used part: leaves.  Reported effects are : stimulation, relaxing, a sense of well-being, improved sleep, increased mental stamina, raised sexual arousal.  Traditionally used by Mexicans for it’s love enhancing properties.  
This tiny herb is a native to Texas, South America and Mexico, and produces small yellow flowers that make it easy to be distinguished from other field flowers. The Damiana produces delicious fruits that taste like figs and that are very frequently used in cooking and body detox diets. The tea made from the leaves of the Damiana is used to relieve stress and improve concentration. The flowers are used to produce oil that can be applied to the skin to help it heal and reduce inflammation. This plant has not been reported to have any negative side effects on the human body and can be used continuously in moderation until the required effect is achieved.


WILD DAGGA   (Leonotis Leonurus)   
CAN SMOKE
Commonly used part: flowers and leaves.  Reported effects are : stimulation, a sense of well-being, relaxing and euphoria.  This herb mixes well with other herbs.  A perfect herb for those using vaporizers.
The Dagga is most often found in South Africa, and it produces beautiful orange flowers that can be used in different ways for medicinal purposes. It is a very large plant that can grow to a height of 2 meters. It is a member of the Mint family and most of its healing properties come from its leaves, which can be used in the same way as those of the Mint in order to make tea. In some cases oil is made from the flowers of the plant, which is also highly concentrated in healthy minerals. It can help with pain relief, blood circulation and the benefit of the overall body’s health.


KLIP DAGGA (Leonotis Nepetipfolia)  
  CAN SMOKE OR TEA
Commonly used parts: flowers and leaves.  Reported effects are: stimulation, relaxing, sense of well-being, and euphoria.  This herb mixes well with other herbs. 
A shrub flower that is native to India and can also be found in some parts of Mexico and Africa as well. The flower blooms into three different colours, all of which have a specific medicinal effect. Although it is related to the Mint family, it has a much higher concentration of minerals, which is why it should always be taken in smaller quantities than your traditional Mint plant. Tea made from the Dagga can be used to detox your body and reduce internal body pain in case of internal infections. The Dagga can also produce a very useful oil that is used to improve skin inflammations and other skin diseases.


AFRICAN DREAM (Entada Rheedii)
RECOMMENDED TO START WITH 1 TO 3 GRAMS OR CAN BE MADE INTO TEA
Commonly used part: seed meat.  Reported effects are: increased awareness and memory during dreams, improved lucid dreaming, drowsiness.  Traditionally seed meat is consumed raw, powder mixes well with yogurt.   
Entada rheedii, commonly known as the African Dream Herb or Snuff Box Sea Bean, and the Cacoon Vine in Jamaica, is a large woody liana or climber. The plant is used as a topical ointment against jaundice, toothache, ulcers and for the treatment of musculoskeletal problems. The Dream herb is also employed in traditional African medicine to induce vivid dreams, enabling communication with the spirit world.The inner meat of the seed is consumed directly, or by drying, chopping, mixing and smoking with herbs and tobacco. Accounts have reported that the use of the African Dream Herb allows one to reach lucidity by helping the consumer to have more vivid and memorable dreams.


ARECA NUT  (Areca Catechu) 
PERFERRED METHOD IS TEA
Commonly used part: nut meat.  Also known as the Bethel nut.  Reported effects are increased alertness, energizing, increased stamina, a sense of well-being, euphoria, and an increased appetite.  
Areca catechu is a species of palm which grows in much of the tropical Pacific, Asia, and parts of east Africa. The palm is believed to have originated in the Philippines, but has become naturalized from countries as far west as India, to Bangladesh, the Maldives, Sri Lanka, Cambodia, Laos,Thailand, Vietnam,  southern China, Taiwan, Malaysia, Indonesia, New Guinea. It is especially popular among many people of the West indies and the Pacific Ocean, where it is very popular.
The palm, known as the betel tree is popular for the stimulating effects produced when its fruit the the betle nut is chewed along with the betel leaf. The extract of Areca catechu has also shown to have antidepressant properties in rodents.


BAY BEAN (Canavalia Maritima)
Dosage 1-2 grams in hot water. Can be smoked and often mixed with tobacco for a weak marijuana like feel
Commonly used part: leaves.  Reported effects are: stimulation, relaxing, euphoria, drowsiness.  Bay Bean leaves are traditionally smoked in Mexico for their mellowing effect.  This herb mixes well with Kanna. 
In South America and the Gulf Coast of Mexico, bay bean (Canavalia maritima) was considered sacred and the leaves were placed in and around graves by the Mazatecs and other tribal groups.
The dried leaves were used as an entheogen in some ancient rituals. In ancient Peru, the fruit and leaves had ritual and magical use. In the Gulf Coast of Mexico, the beans were ingested in combination with other sacred herbs.
Bay bean is a ground vine that climbs in small trees. It grows elliptical leaves with small purple flowers.



BLUE LOTUS  (Nymphaea Caerulea)
Commonly used part: flowers.  Reported effects are: stimulation, relaxing, a sense of well-being, euphoria, and reduced withdrawal symptoms.  Used by Ancient Egyptians to increase the effects of wine, promote longevity, and raise sexual arousal.  
A native flower to the edges of the Nile. The Blue Lotus has symbolized spiritual enlightenment for thousands of years. One of its most popular uses was that of an aphrodisiac, something which it is still known for today when purchased in the adequate form and amount. The petals can be submerged in wine for a few hours, which create an exotic tasting liquid that helps relieve stress. The flowers can also be placed in hot water to make a tea, which helps with blood circulation and improves one’s concentration. The Blue Lotus is not an addictive plant and can be used freely because it has very mild effects on the body.

HONEY WEED   (Leonurus Sibiricus)
FOR TEA SOAK IN WARM NOT BOILING WATER FOR 3 MINUTES
Commonly used parts: flowers and leaves.  Also known as Marihuanilla.  Reported effects are: stimulating, relaxing, and a sense of well-being.  Traditionally used by Mexican Indians for it’s mellowing effects.  
The Honey Weed is also known as the Siberian motherwort (or its Latin name: Leonurus sibiricus). As its name suggests, the Honey Weed is a herb that was discovered, and is most frequently spotted, in the areas of Siberia. More specifically, it is located in the plains of Southwest Asia (Russia and China). However, despite its distant origin, the Honey Weed is a very versatile plant that can grow almost anywhere with a little rain and sunshine. Because of this, many people around the world now have this beautiful herb in their gardens and use it daily for its many benefits. The Honey Weed is a very beautiful herb with a thin stem and purple flowers that grows to a high of up to 80 centimetres. Its flowers bloom once or even twice a year (depending on the climate that they are in), and the blossoms can be picked and used each time. If the flowers are not picked and used, they will wither after a few weeks and will no longer be usable. However, even in such cases, the seeds contained inside the flowers could still be used to plant more Honey Weed in the area, or they can be transported over long distances and planted somewhere else.
Recent Discoveries:
After a number of years of research on the Honey Weed, it was discovered that the herb is a close relative of the more frequently used Mint plant. Because of this, it was soon evident that the herb could be transformed into tea as well. However, in order to get the most of the herb, it is important that the leaves are not left in the hot water for too long. Similar to the brewing of Green Tea, the Honey Weed tea does not require for water to come up to a boil and the leaves should only be left inside the warm water for up to three minutes so that all of its positive minerals could be easily extracted. This is not a tea that is taken every day, but it can help sufferers of high blood pressure, fungi infestations and diabetes if taken regularly for a few weeks. The herb has proven to be very effective in chronic diseases and of course does not have the negative side effects that more drastic chemical drugs which are often prescribed to patients have. Because of its gentle concentration when made into tea, the plant does not have any harsh effects on the stomach.
Common Use:
The most common use of this herb is in its oil form, which is an exceptional way to treat infections during illnesses and aches within the body. Some women have even reported that the herb helps blood circulation, which in turn means that it can relieve period cramps as well. It has very effective numbing and antibacterial properties that cover the soft tissue and help it heal. Among the many Chinese medicines, the Honey Weed is known as Yi-mu-cao. Although it is not one of the most frequently used of Chinese medicines, when it is prescribed it is done so in isolation without any additional support from other medicinal herbs. Because of its very unique and effective application, the Chinese believe that the Honey Weed is in its most effective state when it is used entirely on its own.
Reported Effects:
The Honey Weed oil is most frequently applied in thin layers on areas of skin where it is required, although certain versions of the oil can also be added to tea and healthy drinks. Please bear in mind that not all oils of herbs can be both eaten and applied to the skin. There is a very different procedure in the creation of these oils, so make sure that you are clear on the type of oil that you are using. In terms of skin application, the Honey Weed has amazing antibacterial properties, and can be applied to wounds, allergies and smaller infections. Not only does it kill bacteria, but it also helps the skin heal quickly and with minimal scarring. Small amounts of this oil will go a long way, and it is also very quick to absorb into the skin. When the herb is digested, it helps by improving the cardiovascular system, anxiety, stomach aches, and is also very effective as a diuretic. Very small amounts of this herb are enough to greatly help in healing and can easily be integrated into your daily diet to boost your digestive system.

KANNA (Sceletium tortuosum)
Commonly used parts:  leaves.  Reported effects are:  stimulation, relaxing, a sense opf well-being, euphoria, and a reduced appetite.  Kanna is a popular for being a natual anti-depressant, one of the active components is Mesembrine.  
Kanna is popular for being a natural antidepressant, one of
A native of South Africa, the Kanna has a very rich and pulpy inside that is very adaptive to
different environments and can be turned into different products. Its white flowers grown big,
and develop a yellow centre that holds the cocoons of the pulpy inside which are later
processed. The Kanna is an inhibitor of serotonin and can improve a person’s mood and calm
the nerves. However, it should not be combined with medicine that is aimed to improve the
cardiovascular system because it could have a contrary effect. Oil made from the Kanna is often
applied to painful gums to reduce toothaches because it has mild properties of an anesthetic as
the active components is Mesembrine.

KRA THUM KOK (Mitragyna hirsuta)
Commonnly used parts: leaves.  Closely related to Mitragyna Speciosa (Kratom).  Reported effects are: stimulation, energizing, relaxing, and euphoria.  One of the few herbs that is both energizing and relaxing.  THIS HERB CONTAINS HIRSUTIN.
Mitragyna hirusta is a genus of trees in the Rubiaceae family. The tree is tall, and is found in parts of Cambodia, Thailand and Vietnam. Members of this genus contain indole alkaloids, which have antimalarial and analgesic properties. The leaves of the Mitragyna Hirusta tree, called Kra Thum Kok, have long been used as a folk remedy and are known for both their stimulating and sedating effects. Small doses stimulate the user, while larger doses, have a relaxing, sedating, and pain relieving effect. This is a much safer and healthier alternative than the highly addictive opiate and opiate like substances, which produce the same effect. The leaves are either brewed with hot water or are chewed, sometimes with betel nut (Areca catechu); to achieve the stimulating effect.. The plant also contains a number of alkaloids including Mitraphylline, which has been shown to inhibit the growth of cancer.

KRA THUM NA (Mitragyna javanica)
Commonly used parts: leaves.  Closely related to the Mitragyna Speciosa (Kratom).  Reported effects are energizing, stimulation, euphoria, and relaxing.  One of the few herbs that are both energizing and relaxing.  THIS HERB CONTAINS MITRAGYNINE.
Kra Thum Na (Mitragyna Javanica) and Kra Thum Kok (Mitragyna hirsuta) are both of the Rubiaceae family, look similiar, and have similar effects. Both are used in the treatment of pain and stress, however Kra Thum Na is considered more stimulating than its’ sedating cousin, Kra Thum Kok. In fact, it is commonly used by Muay Thai fighters as a stimulant, to get “amped up” before a fight. It is one of the few herbs that both calms and energizes the body. The leaves are either chewed or brewed as a tea with hot water. Kra Thum Na has similar effects to drugs like: opiates, amphetamines and benzodiazapines. However, Kra Thum Na is a safe and natural alternative to these highly dangerous and addictive drugs.

MACONHA BRAVA (Zornia latifolia)
Commonly used parts: leaves.  Reported effects are : stimulation, sense of well-being, relaxing, and euphoria.  This herb is an ingredient in the smart drug, Spice.  This supports the notion that it mixes well with other herbs.
This is a native plant to South America and it belongs to the pea family. It produces beautiful yellow flowers that can be used to create both tea and oils. However, because the flowers are only open for 5 to 10 hours, they are very rare and usually not acquired for manufacturing purposes. The peas on the other hand can be cooked and added to food. The plant is exceptionally good as a form of a sedative and it can greatly help reduce pain and improve relaxation. The most often created products from this plant are oils, essential oils and tea. It should not be used in unlimited quantities, but more like a less regular addition to your lifestyle.

RED LOTUS (Nymphaea rubra)
Commonly used parts: flowers.  Also known as Red Water Lily.  Reported effects are: stimulating, a sense of well-being, relaxing, and euphoria.  This herb is similar to Blue Lotus in its effects.  
The lotus plant has been used for centuries by the Mayans and Egyptians, as well as the peoples of East and Southeast Asia and is used in both cuisines and as traditional medicine. The lotus’ long history has earned it the title of India’s national flower and a symbol of purity in Buddhist and Hindu traditions. The Red Lotus contains bioflavonoids that act on the GABA receptors, and drinking or smoking it induce relaxation. The GABA chemical receptor system, inhibits and calms the nervous system. It is a much safer and more natural alternative to the highly addictive benzodiazepine class of drugs which produce the same effects by acting on the GABA receptors.

SAKAE NAA (Combretum quadrangulare)
Commonly used parts: seeds and leaves.  Reported effects are: stimulation, increased alertness, relaxing, euphoria, and drowsiness.  This herb is used by farmers in Thailand as a substitute for Kratom.
Very little is known about this medicinal herb, but there are still many of its properties available for use by both researchers and patients all over the world. Because this is a member of the family of trees, it is very difficult to more around and distribute to other areas of the world, which is why it is so hard to get a hold of it. The leaves are usually chewed raw and kept in the mouth for as long as possible so that they can be absorbed by the soft tissue. The oil can be added to food and drinks and taken on a regular basis. The Sakae Naa helps as a pain relief and also as a way to keep you energized. It has similar effects to coffee, but without the added dehydration.

SLEEPY MORNING (Waltheria Americana)
Commonly used parts:  leaves.  Reported effects are: stimulating, energizing, and relaxing.  It is traditionally used to reduce symptoms of menstruation, the common cold, and sore throats.  This herb mixes well with Maconha Brava.
General Information:
The Waltheria americana is a beautiful flowering plant that is more commonly known as Sleepy Morning. It is one of the most tropical plants in its flower family and is often found in the hottest regions of the world, including South America, Africa and India. More likely than being a flower, this plant is a shrub, which means that it grows in large numbers but over smaller surfaces. It is a weak plant in terms of its sustainability to changing weather, so it requires the help of other plants to protect itself. Although it is a slim shrub, this plant can grow up to 6 feet tall and can stretch for a long length of land if it is coupled with more than one of its kind. The entire plant is covered in tiny little hairs that help the plant reduce its temperature in extreme heat by creating tiny little wind waves around the stem of the plant. The leaves have many veins in them which further help the plant with a more even distribution of water to keep it hydrated and to help it last longer in the scorching weather conditions that it likes to grow in. when each of its yellow flower matures, it holds inside it many seeds, which are used both for further reproduction of the plant, and are also the key medicinal aspect of the Sleepy Morning.
Recent Discoveries:
The plant was first discovered in Hawaii and was thought to be a weed at the time and so was destroyed frequently. It took more than a century for locals to realize that it was indeed a shrub flower with very intriguing properties. They came to this discovery after realising that the Sleepy Morning comes from the Cocoa family, and so it was thought that it too could be used to produce delicious desserts. This is not the case with the Sleepy Morning however, because its taste is too bitter to be used in any kind of dessert, and adding sugar to improve the taste would completely ruin its medicinal properties. While the plant can be easily planted in other areas, it is very unlikely to survive weather conditions that are not based on heat. In such cases, it will wither quickly and will not produce any of the very important seeds that are used from it. In terms of the benefits of this particular medicinal plant, much is still left to be discovered about it, and researchers are constantly trying to improve their knowledge of where the Sleepy Morning can be most effectively used.
Common Use:
All parts of the Waltheria americana can be developed into edible and usable counterparts. The leaves are turned into tea, the stem of the plant is developed into oil, the flowers are edible (although very bitter) and the seeds create the best concentration of oil. The production of this plant require specially designed machines to do the job, especially when it comes to excreting the oils, because the seeds have very hard shells and cannot be produced manually. Also, each seed brings with it only a very small amount of oil, and it would take very large numbers of seed in order to produce a reasonable amount of oil. For this reason, and because the plant cannot be grown in all areas of the world, the Sleepy Morning is best purchased from suppliers who have already made the most of the plant. The only part of the Sleepy Morning that is rarely used is its roots. Although they can be used in the production of oil as well, they are usual not used because the root are susceptible to insects that feed on them. Because of this, they are often dry and without much liquid inside them, so they are not used.
Reported Effects:
There is still much research to be done regarding the Sleepy Morning, and only few of its medicinal properties are currently known. One of its most popular uses is as an anesthetic. The oil can be used to soothe painful gums, and it can also help with the chronic asthma because it gentle relieves the soft tissue of the throat. As a tea, the Sleepy Morning is used to help fight against common colds which are often frequent in specific times of the year. The tea can also help with painful menstruations and diarrhea. However, it is important that you always use this particular plant in small doses because there is still much that needs to be discovered about it.

SPACE LOTUS (Nelumbo nucifera mutated)
Commonly used parts: flowers.  Reported effects are: stimulating, relaxing, euphoria, changing perception of colors and shapes.  The mutated Nelumbo Nucifere contains a higher amount of active compounds than the original one.  
The mutated Nelumbo nucifera was generated from outer space radiation using a Chinese satellite in 1994. The seeds were subjected to radiation for 14 days and 19 hours by the regainable satellite of scientific research in China. Outer space induced mutation is a natural and safe way to breed new crop varieties, because it does not involve artificial genetic modification. After numerous space missions, the mutated Nelumbo nucifera exhibited much larger flowers, up to 40 centimeters in diameter, and much higher concentrations of alkaloids, amino acids, vitamins B1, B2, B6, C, E, and phospholipids. The Nelumbo nucifera has long been used in traditional Japanese, Chinese and Indian herbal medicine. It was recorded in the Chinese Pharmacopoeia of traditional Chinese medicine for its’ numerous health-promoting properties. The embryo of the lotus seed has multiple medicinal effects, including: anti-aging properties, invigoration of the spleen, anti-diarrhea, kidney tonic, heart tonic and astringent properties. Since their discovery in 1994, the seeds of the mutated Nelumbo nucifera, no. 36, have readily been used in Fujian Provence, China.

THORNLESS CATCLAW (Acacia berlandieri)
Commonly used parts: flowers and leaves.  Reported effects are: stimulations, energizing, increased alertness, and euphoria.  THIS HERB CONTAINS A MIXTURE OF ALKALOIDS LIKE DOPAMINE, MESCALINE, AND AMPHETAMINE.


(Berlandier Acacia, Guajillo Acacia, guajillo, huajillo) is a shrub native to the Southwestern United States and northeast Mexico. The plant belongs to a subfamily, the Mimosoideae (wattles) of Fabaceae (legumes). It grows 1 to 5 metres (3.3 to 16.4 ft) tall, with blossoms that are spherical and white, occurring from February through April. Researchers identified thirty-one alkaloids in samples of plant foliage, including trace amounts of four amphetamines previously known only from laboratory synthesis, including: amphetamine, methamphetamine, para-hydroxyamphetamine and para-methoxyamphetamine.
TOUCH ME NOT

WHITE LOTUS (Nelumbo nucifera)
Commonly used parts: flowers.  Reported effects are: stimulation, sense of well-being, relaxing, euphoria, raised sexual arousal, increased libido, and reduced appetite.  
This is one of the most often used medicinal plants on the planet, and it is also known as just the Lotus. It is an aquatic plant that grows just as well in both the wild and on private plantations of the Lotus. It has many healing properties which are especially evident when the flowers of the plant are eaten raw. Its roots can be either boiled or deep fried, and they are especially popular as a daily snack in Asia. Tea can be made at home by placing the flower or leaves of the Lotus in hot water. It is a popular detox agent and can also enhance sexual vigour.

WILD LEMON BALM (Melissa officinalis)
Commonly used parts: leaves.  Reported effects are: stimulating, increased alertness, a sense of well-being, and improved sleep.  Lemon balm is used to help manage pain, and it is inhaled as an aromatherapy for Alzheimer’s disease.
Melissa officinalis, known as lemon balm or balm mint, is a perennial herbaceous plant in the mint family Lamiaceae. The plant is native to south-central Europe, North Africa, the Mediterranean and Central Asia. It grows 70–150 cm (28–59 in) in height. The leaves have a gentle lemon scent, related to mint. During summer, the small white flowers fill with nectar and attract bees, hence the genus name Melissa (Greek for ‘honey bee’). Lemon Balm has been used as an herbal remedy to relieve insomnia and induce relaxation since Ancient Greece. Recent studies have shown that the plant is rich in volatile oils called terpenes, which have mild sedative properties and are effective at alleviating moderate anxiety and stress. Scientists have proven that Lemon Balm relieves stress, anxiety and sleeping disorders in animals.

WILD LETTUCE (Lactuca virosa)
Commonly use parts: leaves.  Reported effects are: altered vision, relaxing,  a sense of well-being, sedative, and improved sleep.  This is a mild herb ideal to wind down after a long day.  Wild lettuce mixes well with Maconha Brava.  
A very high stemmed yellow flower that develops best in the wilderness. This is one of the few medicinal plants that were actually discovered in England, and it is also very popular in the rest of Europe as well. This flower can blossom all year round and can thrive in various weather conditions. It has quite a few toxins inside it and was initially used as a substitute for opium. However, unlike opium it has much milder effects and so is not illegal to grow. It is often used to help induce sleep in people who suffer from Insomnia or from other sleep disorders. Both tea and oil can be produced from the plant to achieve the desired effect.

WILD PASSION (Passiflora foetida)
Commonly used parts: leaves.  Reported effects are:  stimulation, relaxing, a sense of well-being, and improved sleep.  Traditionally used by Native Americans as an herbal smoke.  
General Information:
The Wild Passion Flower is also known as the Wild Maracuja, Bush Passion Fruit, Marya- Marya. Wild Water Lemon, and many other names. It is very likely that this herb alone has over twenty different names that it is frequently associated with. The reason for such a broad selection of nicknames is because this herb can be found in many different places across the USA and the rest of the world. While it can be located almost anywhere, its most frequent places of origin are Mexico, South America and the Caribbean islands. This herb is known as a creeping vine, because it can stretch over large areas of earth and even trees. Vines are very versatile plants and they can grow anywhere and under almost any difficult conditions. However, unlike other wild vines, the Wild Passion Flower produces edible fruits later on in its growth stage.
Recent Discoveries:
Unlike for most other medicinal herbs, the leaves of this one should not be consumed in their raw state because they have some minor poisonous elements which protect the plant from insects. It is the fruit of this plant and the seeds that can be found inside it that make it the most useful and most versatile medicinal plant out of all the many possible options that can be found in the wild today. Also, because it does not require any special care to grow and blossom, the seeds of the Wild Passion Flower are most frequently distributed in the wild by birds that eat its fruit. This is the most natural way for plants to spread and develop, and it is also the reason why this herb is not prone to illnesses and does not wither easily. Another very interesting discovery that was made for this plant is the way that it captures insects. This herb is not a meat eater, but it has developed a very effective way to get rid of any pests that may be attacking it. It releases a very sticky substance all over its stem and leaves, so when insects touch it they are trapped and remain there until they die. Not many herbs have developed this property, which is also why this particular plant and is so useful and effective.
Common Use:
The fruit of the Wild Passion Flower is approximately the size of a golf ball and all of its elements can be used for health benefits. It has a mildly sweet flavour that is similar to that of grapes, and it is almost always eaten raw in order to benefit from all of its healing elements. While this fruit can be cooked and processed, it will lose many of its healthy and detoxifying minerals, so it is best to keep it away from heat exposure. While the raw leaves of this plant are very rarely used, if they are dried they can be used to make healthy tea. The tea helps the digestive systems and can also easy pain felt inside the stomach. It should not be used on a very regular basis, but it can definitely be useful when taken occasionally.
Reported Effects:
The Wild Passion Flower has many different benefits depending on which part of the plant is used. It is most frequently taken in the form of capsules to reduce stress and improve concentration, but it can also help to detox your body. Some patients have also reported a reduced amount of twitching of muscles, which means that this herb can also help athletes and people who are very active to reduce muscle pain. Although it is used to reduce stress, it does not have a negative effect on the nervous system, which means that it would not affect your ability to work or drive a car because it is not a type of sedative. However, like every medicinal flower, it is much safer to use than any other traditional drugstore medicine.

ACTIVATED CARBON 
Activated carbon, also known as activated charcoal, carbon activated, or activated coal, is a form of carbon processed to have little, low-volume pores that rises the surface place accessible for chemical reactions or adsorption. Activated is sometimes alternated with active.
Due to its top degree of microporosity, only one gram of activated carbon has a surface place in excess of 500 m2, as calculated by gas adsorption. An activation level ample for helpful application may be attained solely from top surface place; anyway, additional chemical treatment often improves adsorption properties.
Activated carbon is generally derived from charcoal and progressively, high-porosity biochar. It is on the WHO list of essential medicines, a list of the most vital medications required in a basic health system.
The produced activated charcoal has an amazing amount of surface place per unit volume. Perfectively, the activated carbon has a wonderful number of microscopic pores, which is where absorption happens. The absorption performance of carbon activates is determined by the amount of nitrogen absorption without controlled atmosphere.
Activated carbon may be used to treat ingestion of overdoses as well as poisoning. The activated carbon is administered in a known amount and stops or decreases absorption of the poison by the stomach.
How does Activated Charcoal Job?
Activated charcoal jobs in a relatively straightforward way. This porous creation of charcoal traps chemical before your body absorbs them. Then, that same porous creation carries the toxins harmlessly through the bloodstream or digestive tract to be passed naturally from the body.
Activated carbon is guessed to decrease the combination of poisonous substances by about sixty percent which is sufficient to change a deadly dose of poison into a non-lethal dose.
Many scientists are careful to reject defining activated charcoal actions as “absorption”. Absorption happens when a compound passed into or via a bodily tissue. When absorption happens, activated charcoal cannot go to job.
Activated charcoal is the process of moving molecules and atoms from a liquid, solid, gas onto a liquid or solid surface.
Advantages of Activated charcoal
People use activated charcoal for many amazing and different reasons. Here are some of the factors why people use activated charcoal:
Used after a stomach pump procedure to additional cleanse the body
Stop a hangover
Lower cholesterol levels
Decrease bloating, intentional gas, Digestive and IBS issues
Used in water purifies and Air Filtration systems
Cleanse Toxins from the body and treat poisonings
Activated charcoal has exactly been used since 1550BC where it was used kindly cleanse toxins from the body as an ancient herbal remedy.
Activated charcoal side effects
There have been few reported bad effects when taking the advised dosage of activated charcoal. The compound is well-tolerated in most studies and secure for adults to use on a little-term basis.
Abstract
Due to its versatility and big range of applications, activated carbon is largely used as containment elimination media. Latest research have targeted on improving the value of activated charcoal by modifying their specific features in order to permit the carbon to grow affinity for certain contaminants. In view of this, a complete list of literatures on biological, physical and chemical modification methods of activated charcoal pertaining to improvement of toxin removal from aqueous solutions was reviewed and complied. Toxin treatment to bring in Toxin efficient groups onto surface of activated charcoal was by far, many studied method. It was clear from the study survey that the helpful effects specific modification methods on activated carbon adsorption of targeted containment species from aqueous results were profound; with some studies raise the contaminant uptake reasons for more than two.

BLACK PEPPER 
(Piper nigrum)
Pepper, one of the oldest famous spices, is native to tropical Asia. India is one of the biggest producers of pepper in the globe.
Pepper, top in essential oil, is an aromatic herb, that helps stop intestinal flatulence, promotes urination and sweating. Pepper signals the stomach to generate hydrochloric acid which is needed to digest food. This stops food from staying for too long in the stomach. This stops food from staying for too long in the stomach, and stops stomach flatulence and irritation.
Black pepper also has amazing anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and anti-bacterial features. It stimulates absorption of several micronutrients in the body such as EGG, beta carotene and coenzyme.
In Ayurveda, pepper seeds are used in the type of medication for relief from nasal congestion and sinusitis. Sucking a few pepper corns gives instant relief from throat irritation and dry cough.
Because of its antibacterial features, pepper is also used to preserve food. It is a top source of dietary fiber, Vitamin-K, Vitamin-C, potassium, iron, manganese and dietary fiber. Black pepper is also a very best anti-inflammatory agent.
Black pepper uses
Black pepper oil or Piper Nigrum can be used to help in the treatment of fevers, nerve tonic, physical and emotional coldness, muscular ache, exhaustion, raise circulation, colds, flu, chills, rheumatism and pain relief. It additional raises the general digestive tonic, tones the colon muscles, improves peristalsis, stimulates appetite and flow of saliva. On account of its stimulant action it helps digestion and is especially helpful in turbid condition of the stomach and atonic dyspepsia. It will right nausea and flatulence. It has also been used in arthritic, paralytic and vertigo disorders. It has also been recommended in scarlatina, cholera, diarrhea in solution for a clean for tinea capitis. On the outside it is used for its rubefacient features and as a domestic application for calm sore throat and some skin problems. Its oleoresin has fungistatic and bacteriostatic features.
Health advantages of black pepper
Weight loss
The outer layer of the peppercorn helps in the breakdown of fat cells. Therefore, peppery foods are a best way to help out reduces weight naturally. When fat cells are fall down into their component parts, they are perfectly processed by the body and applied to other, fit processes and enzymatic reactions, rather than just sitting on your body and making you look overweight.
Better digestion
Black pepper inspires the taste buds and raises the discharge of hydrochloric acid in the stomach, which in turn helps right digestion. Interestingly, most digestive issues are caused by a deficiency of hydrochloric acid rather than high amounts of it.
By better digestion, black pepper counters problems like constipation, flatulence, indigestion, bloating and colic. It has antibacterial features that support treat intestinal diseases caused by bacteria.
Stimulates Appetite
Besides adding taste to your food and promoting digestion, black pepper jobs as an appetite stimulant. Research has presented that black pepper supports better the taste through olfactory stimulation. This makes it a remarkable, easy method for those with a bad appetite.
An ayurvedic remedy specifically for this objective calls for using a mixture of one-half teaspoon of black pepper and 1 tablespoon of jaggery powder (gur). Take this remedy on a daily basis till you view improvement.
Antioxidant potential
An antioxidant like pepper can stop or repair the damage caused by the free radicals and thus help to stop cancer, liver disease and cardiovascular diseases. Free radicals are the byproducts of cellular metabolism that attack fit cells and cause their DNA to mutate into cancerous cells. Antioxidants like black pepper defuse these bad compounds and save your system from many situations, even early aging symptoms like memory loss, macular degeneration, age spots and wrinkles.
Whooping cough and Asthma
Pepper is a best treatment for respiratory conditions like due to its features as expectorant, as well as powerful anti-inflammatory features.
Rises nutrient absorption
The piperine in black betters the bioavailability of various nutrients such as Vitamin C, A, beta-carotene, selenium and others, thereby improving your full health. Bioavailability refers the quality of nutrient or supplement that is absorbed by the body.
For instance, experts have found that it can raise the bioavailability of the compound curcumin twentyfold. Curcumin helps inflammation, infection, and fight cancer.
Additional, piperine motivates amino acid transporters in inhibits enzymes and intestinal lining that support metabolize nutritional compounds. It also stops the removal of substance from cells and decreases intestinal activity, so more substances enter the body in the active type and remain accessible for use.
Peptic ulcers
A number of studies have presented that black pepper may have beneficial effects on gastric mucosal and peptic ulcers damage, due to its anti-inflammatory and antioxidants properties. More research is still being done on this aspect of black pepper fitness effects.
Other advantages
Black pepper also helps to stop gangrene and ear-aches. It is also best for condition of insect bites, hoarseness, and hernia. It is also generally used to treat situations of toothache and tooth decay. In ancient times, pepper was also administered to treat vision issues.
Black pepper side effects
Pepper may reason of sneezing. Patients who experience undergone abdominal surgery should not include too much pepper to their diet because it can have a bad result on the intestines. Black pepper should not be take in top concentrations, and if you present signs of an allergic reaction, stop its use and consult a doctor!
Preparation techniques & dosage: You can include a pinch of black pepper, or a few peppercorns to herbal tea, or herbal methods to raise the warmth of the blend. Use black pepper essential oil in humid massage oils. One of the remarkable ways to take black pepper in medicinal doses is in the old Trikatu technique where it is combined with equal parts of longer pepper and dried ginger then taken with a portion of honey.
In the kitchen: Pepper actives the taste buds and support to promote digestion. Full peppercorns are used in stews, marinades and pickling, ground pepper includes it favor in salty dishes. Keeping peppercorns full, and grinding just when needed keeps the flavor.

CAYENNE PEPPER
(Capsicum annuum)
Cayenne Pepper is one of the remarkable natural herbs for weight loss. The red cayenne pepper has been verified to curb your appetite, speed up your burn calories and metabolism. If you eat half a teaspoon of cayenne pepper, you can raise the amount of calories your body burns. For instance, in a 4 hour period, you can burn ten times more calories with cayenne than without.
As for your full metabolism, cayenne pepper can raise the metabolic rate by twenty five percent. That is only if you include cayenne to your daily diet. Here is how to decrease with cayenne pepper.
When you eat spicy pepper, it causes your body temperature to increase. When your body temperature increases, your body goes into a chill down mode. You will lose calories, because your body is forcing a chill down process. If you become familiar to spicy foods, this effect will not job as well. You will have to eat more spice to lose calories. 
What is in Cayenne peppers?
Capsaicin is the important active part in cayenne pepper. Experts trust that capsaicin is a thermogenic element. A chemical thermogenic supports improve up your metabolism and reduce your appetite.
Heath advantages of Cayenne peppers
* Cayenne contains health advantage alkaloid compound, capsaicin which provides them powerful spicy pungent characters. Early laboratory studies on test mammals advise that capsaicin has anti-carcinogenic, anti-bacterial, anti-diabetic, and analgesic properties. Which used judiciously it also found to decrease LDL cholesterol levels and triglycerides.
* Although inherently warm and intolerable even in little amounts, cayennes are one of the health-benefit spice items with vitamin, minerals and phytonutrients. It is no wonder this superb spice has been found a place in traditional as well as modern medicines for its disease preventing and fitness promoting features.
* Cayenne Chilli peppers are perhaps the best source of Vitamin A. just hundred g of cayenne has 1386% of A Vitamin. further this cherished flavor is also house for antioxidant flavonoids such as cryptoxanthin, zea xanthin, lutein, and carotenes. Combine, these antioxidants in cayenne support to save your body from bad effects of free radicals generating during disease and stress conditions.
* Brand new cayenne peppers, green or red, a top source of Vitamin C. Hundred g new chilies give about 126% of RDA of this vitamin. Vitamin C is a powerful water soluble antioxidant. It is needed for the collagen synthesis in the body. Collagen is one of the important structural proteins inside the body needed for maintaining the integrity of organs, blood vessels, bones, organs, and skin. Regular consumption of foods rich in Vitamin C supports the body save from scurry, grow resistance against infections agents, pro-inflammatory free radicals, and scavenge harmful.
* The flavor contains extremely top levels of vital minerals. Even if used in little quantities regularly would give adequate levels of selenium, magnesium, manganese, potassium, zinc, copper, and iron. Selenium is an antioxidant trace supplement need by the human body for right liver and heart functions.
CHILL BLEND
Wild Lettuce 40%
(Lactuca virosa)
A very high stemmed yellow flower that develops best in the wilderness. This is one of the few medicinal plants that were actually discovered in England, and it is also very popular in the rest of Europe as well. This flower can blossom all year round and can thrive in various weather conditions. It has quite a few toxins inside it and was initially used as a substitute for opium. However, unlike opium it has much milder effects and so is not illegal to grow. It is often used to help induce sleep in people who suffer from Insomnia or from other sleep disorders. Both tea and oil can be produced from the plant to achieve the desired effect.
Damiana 15%
(Tunera Diffusa)
This tiny herb is a native to Texas, South America and Mexico, and produces small yellow flowers that make it easy to be distinguished from other field flowers. The Damiana produces delicious fruits that taste like figs and that are very frequently used in cooking and body detox diets. The tea made from the leaves of the Damiana is used to relieve stress and improve concentration. The flowers are used to produce oil that can be applied to the skin to help it heal and reduce inflammation. This plant has not been reported to have any negative side effects on the human body and can be used continuously in moderation until the required effect is achieved.
Wild Passion Flower 15%
(Passiflora foetida)
Also known as the Bush Passion Fruit, this is a plant that is easily found in different places around the USA and the rest of world, especially Mexico and the Caribbean islands. It is a type of creeping vine because it stretches over very large areas that also include forest trees. The leaves of this plant cannot be consumed in their raw state because they have toxic properties that make them mildly poisonous to humans. However, if they are cooked and processed the poison is removed. Depending on which part of the plant is used, it can help reduce stress, improve concentration, detox your body and help athletes and those who are very active to reduce muscle pain.
Sakae Naa 10%
(Combretum quadrangulare)
Very little is known about this medicinal herb, but there are still many of its properties available for use by both researchers and patients all over the world. Because this is a member of the family of trees, it is very difficult to more around and distribute to other areas of the world, which is why it is so hard to get a hold of it. The leaves are usually chewed raw and kept in the mouth for as long as possible so that they can be absorbed by the soft tissue. The oil can be added to food and drinks and taken on a regular basis. The Sakae Naa helps as a pain relief and also as a way to keep you energized. It has similar effects to coffee, but without the added dehydration.
Bay Bean 10%
(Canavalia maritima)
A popular medicinal plant of the pea family that grows in the shape of a wild vine to a distance of 20 feet, and enjoys the heat and humidity of salty areas and seashores. A native to the Gulf of Mexico, the Bay Bean has now become a popular flower known for the many healthy minerals hiding inside its seeds. Its succulent roots are crushed to bring out juices that are later infused with other healthy liquids that help reduce rheumatism. The oil taken from the seeds has been developed to help during the healing of common colds and other skin disorders. This plant is not a hallucinogenic, and as such, it can be applied to your regular fitness routine to improve overall body health.
Blue Lotus 5%
(Nymphaea Caerulea)
The abundant white flowers of the Blue Lotus are a native flower to the edges of the Nile and have symbolized spiritual enlightenment for thousands of years. One of its most popular uses was that of an aphrodisiac, something which it is still known for today when purchased in the adequate form and amount. The petals can be submerged in win for a few hours, which create an exotic tasting liquid that helps relieve stress. The flowers can also be placed in boiled water to make tea, which helps with blood circulation and can also improve concentration. The Blue Lotus is not an addictive plant and can be used freely because it has very mild effects on the body.
White Lotus 5%
(Nelumbo nucifera)
This is one of the most often used medicinal plants on the planet, and it is also known as just the Lotus. It is an aquatic plant that grows just as well in both the wild and on private plantations of the Lotus. It has many healing properties which are especially evident when the flowers of the plant are eaten raw. Its roots can be either boiled or deep fried, and they are especially popular as a daily snack in Asia. Tea can be made at home by placing the flower or leaves of the Lotus in hot water. It is a popular detox agent and can also enhance sexual vigour.
All together 100% of natural herbal Magic!

DAGGALICIOUS
A 50/50 BLEND OF KLIP DAGGA AND WILD DAGGA
GREEN TEA
There is tons of information and relative “common knowledge” about green tea so here are some things maybe you didn’t know :) 
1. Weight Loss. Green tea increases the metabolism. The polyphenol found in green tea works to intensify levels of fat oxidation and the rate at which your body turns food into calories.
2. Diabetes. Green tea apparently helps regulate glucose levels slowing the rise of blood sugar after eating. This can prevent high insulin spikes and resulting fat storage.
3. Heart Disease. Scientists think, green tea works on the lining of blood vessels, helping keep them stay relaxed and better able to withstand changes in blood pressure. It may also protect against the formation of clots, which are the primary cause of heart attacks.
4. Esophageal Cancer. It can reduce the risk of esophageal cancer, but it is also widely thought to kill cancer cells in general without damaging the healthy tissue around them.
5. Cholesterol. Green tea reduces bad cholesterol in the blood and improves the ratio of good cholesterol to bad cholesterol.
6. Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s. It is said to delay the deterioration caused by Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s. Studies carried out on mice showed that green tea protected brain cells from dying and restored damaged brain cells.
7. Tooth Decay. Studies suggests that the chemical antioxidant “catechin” in tea can destroy bacteria and viruses that cause throat infections, dental caries and other dental conditions
8. Blood Pressure. Regular consumption of green tea is thought to reduce the risk of high blood pressure.
9. Depression. Theanine is an amino acid naturally found in tea leaves. It is this substance that is thought to provide a relaxing and tranquilizing effect and be a great benefit to tea drinkers.
10. Anti-viral and Anti-bacterial. Tea catechins are strong antibacterial and antiviral agents which make them effective for treating everything from influenza to cancer. In some studies green tea has been shown to inhibit the spread of many diseases.
11. Skincare. Green tea can apparently also help with wrinkles and the signs of aging, This is because of their antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities. Both animal and human studies have demonstrated that green tea applied topically can reduce sun damage.

JIAOQULAN
Background

In 1976 a Japanese researcher, looking for a sugar alternative, studied a perennial weed known for its sweetness. He discovered an herb with many qualities similar to ginseng, even though unrelated as a plant. This event sparked years of scientific research on jiaogulan, praised in China as xiancao, the herb of immortality, revealing it to be a powerful adaptogenic and antioxidant herb with many health-giving properties.  
Benefits
Cholesterol      Blood Pressure     Digestion  
Strength and Endurance      Immunity      Adaptogenic Properties
Antioxidant Properties     Gypenosides-The Active Ingredients

Cholesterol 

Scientific studies have confirmed jiaogulan's ability to assist the regulation of serum cholesterol, triglycerides, LDL (bad cholesterol), and HDL (good cholesterol, which helps to metabolize cholesterol from the arteries). 1

Blood Pressure

Jiaogulan has been widely reported to be effective in maintaining healthy blood pressure levels. Although the exact mechanism is still being researched, studies have shown that jiaogulan improves the metabolism of the heart directly 2 as well as enhances the release of nitric oxide in the body, which helps to relax the coronary blood vessels.3

Digestion

While jiaogulan is great for regulating cholesterol, it also assists a good weight loss program, by improving and strengthening digestion. At the same time, it helps an underweight person by assisting the absorption of nutrients. This regulatory effect on bodily functions is the hallmark of an Adaptogen.4

Strength and Endurance

The results of human studies confirm that jiaogulan can enhance the contractility of the heart muscle and heart pumping function. Other studies have shown that the saponins in jiaogulan increase strength and endurance in the body. Considering these findings overall, jiaogulan becomes the perfect herb for anyone who wants to improve his competitive edge in any field of athletic performance. 5

Immunity

Jiaogulan has also demonstrated an ability to support the immune system when under the siege of various destructive agents.6,7 Jiaogulan has also shown its effectiveness, in clinical research studies, as a potent immunomodulator. It increases the production of Lymphocytes, Phagocytes, and Serum IGG.8

Adaptogenic Properties

Jiaogulan has a biphasic effect on brain functions, energizing or calming the system depending upon need, as well as on the regulation of hormonal functions in both men and women. The healthy maintenance of these physiological actions plays a major role in the body's ability to cope with stress.9,10

Antioxidant Properties

The results of many scientific studies show that jiaogulan's powerful antioxidant quality protects against free radical damage. 11,12

Gypenosides-The Active Ingredients

Jiaogulan contains a large quantity of saponins known as gypenosides. The structure of the gypenosides is very similar to the panaxosides (also known as ginsenosides) found in ginseng. There are 3-4 times as many saponins in jiaogulan as there are in ginseng. Some of those saponins are identical to the panaxosides in ginseng and some of them turn into panaxosides when taken into the body. This greater number of gypenosides may account for a more powerful regulatory effect on a number of body systems, like blood pressure, the reproductive system, the digestive system, the immune system, mental functions, and more.  13,14,15
http://www.jiaogulan.net/benefits.htm
LOFUS DELIGHT
Red Lotus (50%)
(Nymphaea rubra)
The lotus plant has been used for centuries by the Mayans and Egyptians, as well as the peoples of East and Southeast Asia and is used in both cuisines and as traditional medicine. The lotus’ long history has earned it the title of India’s national flower and a symbol of purity in Buddhist and Hindu traditions. The Red Lotus contains bioflavonoids that act on the GABA receptors, and drinking or smoking it induce relaxation. The GABA chemical receptor system, inhibits and calms the nervous system. It is a much safer and more natural alternative to the highly addictive benzodiazepine class of drugs which produce the same effects by acting on the GABA receptors.
White Lotus (50%)
(Nelumbo nucifera)
This is one of the most often used medicinal plants on the planet, and it is also known as just the Lotus. It is an aquatic plant that grows just as well in both the wild and on private plantations of the Lotus. It has many healing properties which are especially evident when the flowers of the plant are eaten raw. Its roots can be either boiled or deep fried, and they are especially popular as a daily snack in Asia. Tea can be made at home by placing the flower or leaves of the Lotus in hot water. It is a popular detox agent and can also enhance sexual vigor.
LOTUS LOVE
White Lotus (50%)
(Nelumbo nucifera)
This is one of the most often used medicinal plants on the planet, and it is also known as just the Lotus. It is an aquatic plant that grows just as well in both the wild and on private plantations of the Lotus. It has many healing properties which are especially evident when the flowers of the plant are eaten raw. Its roots can be either boiled or deep fried, and they are especially popular as a daily snack in Asia. Tea can be made at home by placing the flower or leaves of the Lotus in hot water. It is a popular detox agent and can also enhance sexual vigour.
Blue Lotus (50%)
(Nymphaea Caerulea)
The abundant white flowers of the Blue Lotus are a native flower to the edges of the Nile and have symbolized spiritual enlightenment for thousands of years. One of its most popular uses was that of an aphrodisiac, something which it is still known for today when purchased in the adequate form and amount. The petals can be submerged in win for a few hours, which create an exotic tasting liquid that helps relieve stress. The flowers can also be placed in boiled water to make tea, which helps with blood circulation and can also improve concentration. The Blue Lotus is not an addictive plant and can be used freely because it has very mild effects on the body.

MORNINGA
(Moringa oleifera)
Commonly used parts: whole plant. Moringa is a superfood that is used to fight malnutrition in Africa and India. In one serving of Moringa Oleifera leaves, you can find: 22% daily value of Vitamin C, 41% daily value of Potassium, 61% daily value of Magnesium, 71% daily value of Iron, 125% daily value of Calcium, 272% daily value of Vitamin A and 92 Nutrients, 46 Antioxidants, 36 Anti-Inflammatories, 18 Amino Acids and 9 Essential Amino Acids. Moringa has been used since the ancient Indus River Valley Civilization, and is recorded in Ayurvedic medicine as a treatment for numerous diseases. This plant is not only a superfood, but will improve your overall health as well.
Moringa is a plant native to the sub-Himalayan areas of India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Afghanistan. It is also grown in the tropics. The leaves, bark, flowers, fruit, seeds, and roots are used to make medicine. Moringa is used to treat anemia, arthritis, rheumatism, asthma, cancer, constipation, diabetes, diarrhea, epilepsy, stomach pain, stomach and intestinal ulcers, intestinal spasms, headache, heart problems, high blood pressure, kidney stones, fluid retention, thyroid disorders and bacterial, fungal, viral, and parasitic infections. Moringa is also used to reduce swelling, increase sex drive, prevent pregnancy, boost the immune system, and increase breast milk production. Some people use it as a nutritional supplement or tonic. Moringa is sometimes applied directly to the skin as a germ-killer or drying agent (astringent). It is also used topically for treating pockets of infection (abscesses), athlete’s foot, dandruff, gum disease (gingivitis), snakebites, warts, and wounds. It is also an important antioxidant and helps protect cells from damage. The oil from Moringa seeds is used in foods, perfume, and hair care products, and as a machine lubricant.
Moringa is an important food source because the leaves contain many important vitamins and minerals and the plant can be grown cheaply and easily. It is used in India and Africa to fight malnutrition. In one serving of Moringa Oleifera leaves, you can find: 22% daily value of Vitamin C, 41% daily value of Potassium, 61% daily value of Magnesium, 71% daily value of Iron, 125% daily value of Calcium, 272% daily value of Vitamin A and 92 Nutrients, 46 Antioxidants, 36 Anti-Inflammatories, 18 Amino Acids and 9 Essential Amino Acids. Moringa Oleifera is not only a superfood, but a complete health product that will help improve your overall health as well. The immature green pods (drumsticks) are prepared similarly to green beans, while the seeds are removed from more mature pods and cooked like peas or roasted like nuts. The leaves are cooked and used like spinach, and they are also dried and powdered for use as a condiment. One of the most amazing properties of this plant is its ability to remove salt from seawater and for its use as a fertilizer.

NEEM
(Azadirachta indica)
Neem is an evergreen tropical tree that has an approximate height of between 50-130 feet tall. The tree is indigenous in Pakistan, Bangladesh and India.
Every part of the tree, bark, leaves, seeds, roots fragrant flowers and roots. The tree has wide applications ranging from cooking, shampoos, religious ceremonies, lotions, as a natural pesticide and medicine. The medical uses of neem are expanding by the day. Currently in India there is a research going on about the plant’s cancer treatment. Traditionally, the leaves have been used as a blood cleanser because of their antifungal, antiviral, antiseptic and antiparasitic properties. The leaves also treat many eye infections, stomach ulcers, diabetes, poor appetite, gum diseases, fever, liver disorders and arthritis. The leave also can be used as a birth control contraceptive because of its spermicidal qualities. Pregnant and breastfeeding mothers must not use neem because it may lead to abortion and toxicity to the infants.
Oil from neem is known for its excellent moisturizing properties, rich in vitamin E, high fatty acids and emollients and soothes a dry skin. Neem contains very high levels of antioxidants that are helpful in your skin protection against environmental damage. The plant also has antioxidant carotenoids that assist in protecting your skin from free radicals that are age-promoting. Once you apply neem oil on your skin, it is absorbed easily and does not leave your skin greasy. Immediately it is absorbed, the powerful properties it owns help rejuvenate the cells of the skin and restore elasticity. When regularly used it helps smoothen the wrinkles thus prevents signs of aging. Vitamin E will help the skin restore its youthful glow and balance skin tone.
Treatment of Ringworm, Athletes Foot and nail fungus. Neem products are the most powerful anti-fungal extracts that can be found around. It helps treat common fungal infections, for example, nail fungus and ringworm. The neem leaves contain powerful anti-fungal agents capable of destroying fungi. Laboratory experiments have attested to this fat.
Neem Improves Acne Prone Skin
Neem is effective for a skin that is acne-prone because it aids in soothing irritation and inflammation, clears up all the pimples and removes bacteria from the skin surface that can lead to more breakouts. The tree contains a compound that is aspirin-like and is helpful with acne conditions by removing the skin causing bacteria. It also reduces inflammation and redness. The fatty-acid content in oil made of Neem prevents and treats scars that result from acne. It can also be used as a facial masque to jerk out impurities and help in tightening poles.
Soothe Eczema with Neem
Eczema is an inflammatory skin condition whose characteristics include extremely irritable, red and itchy skin. Eczema can at its worst flare up the skin, become raw and cracked and can lead to secondary infections. Neem oil helps relieve eczema symptoms, but does not cure eczema root causes. But, by virtue of its ability to heal abrasions and reduce inflammation, it can be soothing to those people who are suffering from eczema.
The nimbin and nimbidin are anti-inflammatory compounds found in Neem Oil that help to relieve redness and swelling. Quercetin is another anti-inflammatory compound that supports the body’s ability to respond to inflammation through inhibition of both the histamine manufacture and release. Emollients are recommended by dermatologists for eczema. These are substances that fill the cracks and gaps in the skin, restore the protective barrier and prevent moisture loss. Since neem is highly penetrative, it becomes extremely effective in healing damaged and dry skin.
 

PAPAYA
(Carica papaya)
Papaya fruit provides not only the juicy tasty but is a rich source of antioxidant nutrients such as fiber, magnesium, potassium, minerals, pantothenic acid and folate, Vitamins B, flavonoids Vitamin C, and carotenes. Together, these nutrients promote the fitness of the cardiovascular system and also give protection against colon cancer. The fruit is famous for its proteolytic enzymes plus papain, which is used like bromelain, a related enzyme found in pineapple, to treat causes of trauma, sports injuries and allergies. The milk juice from unripe fruit known as latex, contains the most concentration of papain, enough some people say to delete freckles.
Papaya leaf is used in herbal medicine to delete intentional worms but it contains tannins that fruit does not. These tannins save the intestine from reinfection by protein tanning in the lining of the intestinal walls so that young insects cannot link themselves.
What is the recommended dosage?
A commercially made ointment to debride wounds is available by prescription in the USA. Each 1 g contains 8.4 x 105 USP Units Papain and hundred mg of urea. There is extremely little data accessible to make specific advice regarding systemic doses of papaya. One study used a four g of papaya air-dried seeds in 20 mL of honey to cure helminthiasis. In the USA, the fruit is commonly known as safe when used as a food.
How does it work?
Papaya contains a chemical known as papain. Papain breaks down fats, carbohydrates, and proteins. That is why it jobs as a meat tenderizer. Anyway, papain is changed by digestive juices, so question about whether it could be perfect as a medicine when taken by mouth.
Papaya also contains a chemical known as carpain. Carpain seems to be capable to kill parasites, and it might affect the central nervous system.
Health advantages of Papaya leaf
1. Papaya leaves contains vital nutrients such as Vitamin E, C, B1, A, protein, calories, iron, phosphorus, calcium and carbohydrates. Leaf juice has a vital enzyme known as papain that helps in digestion by breaking down that protein naturally.
2. Papaya leaf juice have over fifty active ingredients the Karpain compounds that inhibit microorganisms such as bacteria, parasites, worms, fungi as well as many types of cancer cells. It is often used in herbal medicine to delete intestinal worms as it contains tannins that save the intestine from re-infection. This way the worms cannot link themselves.
3. Papaya leaf has been found to have antimalarial features as well. Therefore, papaya leaf juice is generally used in some part of the globe as prophylactic for preventing malaria in different endemic regions.
4. The biggest anti-cancer features of papaya are concentrated in its leaf extract. According to a research conducted by the Ethnopharmacology journal, papaya leaf have certain enzymes that have dramatic cancer fighting features against a big range of tumors such as pancreatic cancer, lung cancer, liver cancer, breast cancer, and cervix cancer without any toxic effects on the body.
5. Another remarkable advantage of papaya leaf is its capability to fight viral infections such as the general cold virus. It is a natural way of producing white platelets and blood cells. Papaya leaves have fifty ingredients including Vitamins C, A, and E that support the immune system.
6. Dengue is a fatal disease caused by dengue virus spread by the Aedes mosquito. This sickness can be deadly at times and is characterized by symptoms such as severe muscle pain, high fever with headache, red rashes on the body that can cause itching. So far no specific medicine has been made for this disease. Painkillers like ibuprofen and Aspirin have their own bad effects. Papaya leaf juice is a traditional technique of curing dengue fever without posting any bad effects.
7. Papaya leaf juice is generally used by salons or health care stores for hair treatment. When used as a conditioner used other ingredients like honey and coconut milk, it includes shine to lifeless, dull hair and softens rude and unruly hair.
8. Drinking papaya leaves may decrease PMS symptoms and maybe regulate menstruation cycles due to its very strong healing features that balance hormones.
9. Papaya leaf juice dos such as a best job of cleansing and healing that drinking it regularly can help better your power level and help you get started on the day fast. It could possibly be supportive for improving chronic fatigue.
10. Maintaining a top number of blood platelets is very vital after a serious sickness, especially with diseases like dengue that reason of blood platelets to down to seriously low levels. The Asian pacific Tropical Biomedicine journal found that Papaya leaf juice significantly raises blood platelet production.
Side effects of Papaya leaves
Breastfeeding and pregnancy
Papaya is possibly danger hen taken by mouth during pregnancy. Do not take papaya by mouth in drug amounts if you are pregnant. There is some proof that unprocessed papain, one of the chemicals found in papaya, might cause birth defects and poison the fetus. Not enough is known about the protection of papaya during breast-feeding. It is remarkable to reject taking it amounts superior than general food amounts.
Low blood sugar
Papaya that has been fermented can decrease blood sugar. Taking this type of papaya might formulate blood sugar very low.
Diabetes
People with diabetes who are taking drugs to lower their blood sugar should pay near focus to their blood sugar as adjustment to medications might be required.
Latex allergy
If you are allergic to latex, there is a best chance you are also be allergic to papaya. If you have latex allergy, reject eating papaya or taking products that have papaya.
Surgery
Papaya that has been fermented can decrease blood sugar. In theory, this type of papaya might have an effect on blood sugar after and during surgery. If you are using papaya, you should prevent two weeks before surgery.
Nature has given you all the leaves, herbs, nutrients, and produce you need to enjoy a healthy life. Work papaya leaf juices into your juicing routine to support you gets all of its special healing features and enjoy a higher standard of life.

PUNCTURE VINE
(Tribulus terrestris)
Tribulus terrestris, more commonly known as the Puncture Vine, is an annual plant in the Caltrop Family (Zygophyllaceae). The plant is widely distributed around the world, and is adapted for growth in arid climates, where few plants can survive. It is used by bodybuilders to restore the body’s natural testosterone levels after they have completed a steroid cycle. The extract is claimed to increase the body’s natural testosterone levels and thereby improve male sexual performance and help build muscle. Its purported muscle-building potential was popularized by American IFBB bodybuilding champion Jeffrey Petermann in the early 1970s.

RED LOTUS
(Nymphaea rubra)
The lotus plant has been used for centuries by the Mayans and Egyptians, as well as the peoples of East and Southeast Asia and is used in both cuisines and as traditional medicine. The lotus’ long history has earned it the title of India’s national flower and a symbol of purity in Buddhist and Hindu traditions. The Red Lotus contains bioflavonoids that act on the GABA receptors, and drinking or smoking it induce relaxation. The GABA chemical receptor system, inhibits and calms the nervous system. It is a much safer and more natural alternative to the highly addictive benzodiazepine class of drugs which produce the same effects by acting on the GABA receptors.

RISE & SHINE THIS IS A COMBINATION OF 4 DIFFERENT HERBS 
Bala: 70%
(Sida Cordifolia)
A subshrub which is a native plant to the forests of the USA, Africa, India and Australia. The plant flourishes in high humidity and requires a steady amount of heat in order to grow into its most beneficial shape. The most beneficial part of the Bala is the flower, which helps reduce pain in chronic illnesses, improve the condition of neurological ailments and improves the production and help of neurons. The tea made from the leaves is most often used for the reduction of blood pressure and improvement of digestion. Both the oils and the tea of the Bala can easily be implemented into your everyday diet and are quick to show healthy results.
Bay Bean: 10%
(Canavalia maritima)
A popular medicinal plant of the pea family that grows in the shape of a wild vine to a distance of 20 feet, and enjoys the heat and humidity of salty areas and seashores. A native to the Golf of Mexico, the Bay Bean has now become a popular flower known for the many healthy minerals hiding inside its seeds. Its succulent roots are crushed to bring out juices that are later infused with other healthy liquids that help reduce rheumatism. The oil taken from the seeds has been developed to help during the healing of common colds and other skin disorders. This plant is not a hallucinogenic, and as such, it can be applied to your regular fitness routine to improve overall body health.
Blue Lotus: 10%
(Nymphaea Caerulea)
The abundant white flowers of the Blue Lotus are a native flower to the edges of the Nile and have symbolized spiritual enlightenment for thousands of years. One of its most popular uses was that of an aphrodisiac, something which it is still known for today when purchased in the adequate form and amount. The petals can be submerged in win for a few hours, which create an exotic tasting liquid that helps relieve stress. The flowers can also be placed in boiled water to make tea, which helps with blood circulation and can also improve concentration. The Blue Lotus is not an addictive plant and can be used freely because it has very mild effects on the body.
White Lotus: 10%
(Nelumbo nucifera)
This is one of the most often used medicinal plants on the planet, and it is also known as just the Lotus. It is an aquatic plant that grows just as well in both the wild and on private plantations of the Lotus. It has many healing properties which are especially evident when the flowers of the plant are eaten raw. Its roots can be either boiled or deep fried, and they are especially popular as a daily snack in Asia. Tea can be made at home by placing the flower or leaves of the Lotus in hot water. It is a popular detox agent and can also enhance sexual vigor.

TONCAT ALI
(Eurycoma longifolia)
Tongkat Ali is a flowering plant native to Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam, and Laos. Many of the common names refer to the plant’s medicinal use and extreme bitterness. An electronic taste sensor was devised to detect the presence and concentration of quassinoids and determine the use of genuine E longifolia. Quassinoids, the biologically active components of E. longifolia root, are extremely bitter. They are named after quassin, the long-isolated bitter principle of the quassia tree. Quassin is regarded as the most bitter substance in nature, 50 times more bitter than quinine. The plant parts have traditionally been used as herbal medicine because of its antimalarial, aphrodisiac, antidiabetic, antimicrobial, and antipyretic properties. Apart from its use as a traditional medicine E. longifolia is used as food and drink additive. According to WebMD, evidence suggests that E. longifolia supplements might have a role in boosting sperm quality.
TUMERIC
Curcuma longa
Turmeric is a spice and superfood that comes from the turmeric plant. It is generally used in Asian food. You may be known Turmeric as the important spice in curry. It has a hot, bitter taste and frequently used to color curry powder or flavor, cheeses, butters, and mustards. But the root of Turmeric is also used largely to make medicine. It has a yellow-colored chemical known as curcumin, which is generally used to color cosmetics and foods.
Turmeric is used for heartburn, arthritis, Crohn disease, stomach pain, join pain, and bypass surgery, ulcerative colitis,  diarrhea, hemorrhage, stomach bloating, intestinal gas, jaundice, loss of appetite, stomach ulcers, infection, Helicobacter pylori, liver disease, gallbladder disorders, irritable bowel syndrome, high cholesterol, a skin issue known as skin inflammation, lichen planus.
It is also used for bronchitis, headaches, lung infections, fever, leprosy, fibromyalgia, menstrual, recovery after surgery, itchy skin, and cancers. Other uses contain Alzheimer disease, depression, swelling in the center layer of the eye, water retention, diabetes, worms, and autoimmune problem known as lupus erythematosus, urinary bladder inflammation, tuberculosis, and kidney issues.
Some people use turmeric to the ringworm, skin for pain, bruising, swelling, leech bites, acne, eye infections, skin sores, and inflammatory skin conditions, infected wounds, soreness inside of the mouth, and gum disease.
In manufacturing and food, the essential oil of turmeric is used in perfumes, and its resin is used as a color and flavor component in foods.
How does it work?
Turmeric includes the curcumin chemical. Curcumin and other elements in turmeric might reduce swelling. With help of these, turmeric might be advantage for treating situations that involve inflammation.
Advantages
Turmeric is a general spice that may stop actual replaces or inflammation in general when used in combination with standard medications for ulcerative colitis.
Given that it is badly absorbed then quickly dishonored by the liver, item is not likely to generate serious systemic bad effects.
Laboratory testing turmeric shows important activity in suppressing trails of inflammation.
It bad absorption through the walls of the gut into the bloodstream raises the possibility that will go on to come into open contact with both the swollen tissues of the large and small intestine.
The dangers of bad effects are low and during interactions are unlikely.
Disadvantages
Turmeric can cause mild gastrointestinal signs such as bloating.
Studies are restricted, so further studies are required to verify the advantages.
There is a theoretical problem that turmeric could act together with drugs that change blood clothing. If this is an issue, do not use turmeric.
Because turmeric is badly absorbed, and the little amount that is absorbed is then quickly degraded in the liver, it does not reach stages in the bloodstream that would be advantage for other inflammatory situations.
Dosing
For top cholesterol: 1.4 grams of turmeric extract in 2 divided doses daily for three months has been used.
For osteoarthritis: 500 mg of non-commercial turmeric Product 4 times daily for four to six weeks has been used. 500 mg of turmeric extract has been used twice regularly for six weeks. 500 mg of a unique turmeric extract (Indena, Meriva) containing phosphatidylcholine and turmeric has been used twice regularly two to three months. Other mixture products have also been used.
For itching: 1500 mg of turmeric in 3 divided doses daily for eight weeks has been used. Also, a specific product having turmeric extract (Sami Labs LTD, C3 complex) plus long pepper or plus black pepper has been used daily for four weeks.
Conclusion
Turmeric emerges to be sensible adding to standard medical treatment for the cure of ulcerative colitis. Its use for decade ago as a spice provides it an amazing safety evidence. If you do elect to try it, bear in mind to add it in your list of drugs when you visit your doctor and other fitness care providers.

YNDIKA BLEND
Kanna: 20%
(Sceletium Tortuosum)
A native of South Africa, the Kanna has a very rich and pulpy inside that is very adaptive to different environments and can be turned into different products. Its white flowers grown big, and develop a yellow centre that holds the cocoons of the pulpy inside which are later processed. The Kanna is an inhibitor of serotonin and can improve a person’s mood and calm the nerves. However, it should not be combined with medicine that is aimed to improve the cardiovascular system because it could have a contrary effect. Oil made from the Kanna is often applied to painful gums to reduce toothaches because it has mild properties of an anaesthetic as well.
Wild Lettuce: 20%
(Lactuca virosa)
A very high stemmed yellow flower that develops best in the wilderness. This is one of the few medicinal plants that were actually discovered in England, and it is also very popular in the rest of Europe as well. This flower can blossom all year round and can thrive in various weather conditions. It has quite a few toxins inside it and was initially used as a substitute for opium. However, unlike opium it has much milder effects and so is not illegal to grow. It is often used to help induce sleep in people who suffer from Insomnia or from other sleep disorders. Both tea and oil can be produced from the plant to achieve the desired effect.
Bay Bean: 10%
(Canavalia maritima)
A popular medicinal plant of the pea family that grows in the shape of a wild vine to a distance of 20 feet, and enjoys the heat and humidity of salty areas and seashores. A native to the Golf of Mexico, the Bay Bean has now become a popular flower known for the many healthy minerals hiding inside its seeds. Its succulent roots are crushed to bring out juices that are later infused with other healthy liquids that help reduce rheumatism. The oil taken from the seeds has been developed to help during the healing of common colds and other skin disorders. This plant is not a hallucinogenic, and as such, it can be applied to your regular fitness routine to improve overall body health.
Wild Passion Flower: 10%
(Passiflora foetida)
Also known as the Bush Passion Fruit, this is a plant that is easily found in different places around the USA and the rest of world, especially Mexico and the Caribbean islands. It is a type of creeping vine because it stretches over very large areas that also include forest trees. The leaves of this plant cannot be consumed in their raw state because they have toxic properties that make them mildly poisonous to humans. However, if they are cooked and processed the poison is removed. Depending on which part of the plant is used, it can help reduce stress, improve concentration, detox your body and help athletes and those who are very active to reduce muscle pain.
Sakae Naa: 10%
(Combretum quadrangulare)
Very little is known about this medicinal herb, but there are still many of its properties available for use by both researchers and patients all over the world. Because this is a member of the family of trees, it is very difficult to more around and distribute to other areas of the world, which is why it is so hard to get a hold of it. The leaves are usually chewed raw and kept in the mouth for as long as possible so that they can be absorbed by the soft tissue. The oil can be added to food and drinks and taken on a regular basis. The Sakae Naa helps as a pain relief and also as a way to keep you energized. It has similar effects to coffee, but without the added dehydration.
Damiana: 10%
(Tunera Diffusa)
This tiny herb is a native to Texas, South America and Mexico, and produces small yellow flowers that make it easy to be distinguished from other field flowers. The Damiana produces delicious fruits that taste like figs and that are very frequently used in cooking and body detox diets. The tea made from the leaves of the Damiana is used to relieve stress and improve concentration. The flowers are used to produce oil that can be applied to the skin to help it heal and reduce inflammation. This plant has not been reported to have any negative side effects on the human body and can be used continuously in moderation until the required effect is achieved.
Honey Weed: 5%
(Leonurus Sibiricus)
Also known as the Siberian motherwort, the Honey Weed was first discovered in the cold areas of Siberia that were not covered in snow. Its thin stem and purple flowers can grow to an impressive height of up to 80 centimetres, and the flowers bloom up to twice a year. The herb is a close relative to the Mint plant and as such can be easily used as tea as well. A short blanch of the leaves in hot water is enough to bring out their most useful properties, and it can be taken on a regular basis. The tea improves the cardiovascular system, reduces allergies and improves soft tissue. The oil taken from the flowers can be used to improve different skin conditions and as an additional ingredient in food.
Klip Dagga: 5%
(Leonotis nepetipfolia)
A shrub flower that is native to India and can also be found in some parts of Mexico and Africa as well. The flower blooms into three different colours, all of which have a specific medicinal effect. Although it is related to the Mint family, it has a much higher concentration of minerals, which is why it should always be taken in smaller quantities than your traditional Mint plant. Tea made from the Dagga can be used to detox your body and reduce internal body pain in case of internal infections. The Dagga can also produce a very useful oil that is used to improve skin inflammations and other skin diseases.
Wild Dagga: 5%
(Leonotis leonurus)
The Dagga is most often found in South Africa, and it produces beautiful orange flowers that can be used in different ways for medicinal purposes. It is a very large plant that can grow to a height of 2 meters. It is a member of the Mint family and most of its healing properties come from its leaves, which can be used in the same way as those of the Mint in order to make tea. In some cases oil is made from the flowers of the plant, which is also highly concentrated in healthy minerals. It can help with pain relief, blood circulation and the benefit of the overall body’s health.
Blue Lotus: 2.5%
(Nymphaea Caerulea)
The abundant white flowers of the Blue Lotus are a native flower to the edges of the Nile and have symbolized spiritual enlightenment for thousands of years. One of its most popular uses was that of an aphrodisiac, something which it is still known for today when purchased in the adequate form and amount. The petals can be submerged in win for a few hours, which create an exotic tasting liquid that helps relieve stress. The flowers can also be placed in boiled water to make tea, which helps with blood circulation and can also improve concentration. The Blue Lotus is not an addictive plant and can be used freely because it has very mild effects on the body.
White Lotus: 2.5%
(Nelumbo nucifera)
This is one of the most often used medicinal plants on the planet, and it is also known as just the Lotus. It is an aquatic plant that grows just as well in both the wild and on private plantations of the Lotus. It has many healing properties which are especially evident when the flowers of the plant are eaten raw. Its roots can be either boiled or deep fried, and they are especially popular as a daily snack in Asia. Tea can be made at home by placing the flower or leaves of the Lotus in hot water. It is a popular detox agent and can also enhance sexual vigor.

ZATIWA BLEND

Kanna: 40%
(Sceletium Tortuosum)
A native of South Africa, the Kanna has a very rich and pulpy inside that is very adaptive to different environments and can be turned into different products. Its white flowers grown big, and develop a yellow centre that holds the cocoons of the pulpy inside which are later processed. The Kanna is an inhibitor of serotonin and can improve a person’s mood and calm the nerves. However, it should not be combined with medicine that is aimed to improve the cardiovascular system because it could have a contrary effect. Oil made from the Kanna is often applied to painful gums to reduce toothaches because it has mild properties of an anaesthetic as well.
 
Bay Bean: 10%
(Canavalia maritima)
A popular medicinal plant of the pea family that grows in the shape of a wild vine to a distance of 20 feet, and enjoys the heat and humidity of salty areas and seashores. A native to the Golf of Mexico, the Bay Bean has now become a popular flower known for the many healthy minerals hiding inside its seeds. Its succulent roots are crushed to bring out juices that are later infused with other healthy liquids that help reduce rheumatism. The oil taken from the seeds has been developed to help during the healing of common colds and other skin disorders. This plant is not a hallucinogenic, and as such, it can be applied to your regular fitness routine to improve overall body health.
 
Honey Weed: 10%
(Leonurus Sibiricus)
Also known as the Siberian motherwort, the Honey Weed was first discovered in the cold areas of Siberia that were not covered in snow. Its thin stem and purple flowers can grow to an impressive height of up to 80 centimetres, and the flowers bloom up to twice a year. The herb is a close relative to the Mint plant and as such can be easily used as tea as well. A short blanch of the leaves in hot water is enough to bring out their most useful properties, and it can be taken on a regular basis. The tea improves the cardiovascular system, reduces allergies and improves soft tissue. The oil taken from the flowers can be used to improve different skin conditions and as an additional ingredient in food.
 
Klip Dagga: 10%
(Leonotis nepetipfolia)
A shrub flower that is native to India and can also be found in some parts of Mexico and Africa as well. The flower blooms into three different colours, all of which have a specific medicinal effect. Although it is related to the Mint family, it has a much higher concentration of minerals, which is why it should always be taken in smaller quantities than your traditional Mint plant. Tea made from the Dagga can be used to detox your body and reduce internal body pain in case of internal infections. The Dagga can also produce a very useful oil that is used to improve skin inflammations and other skin diseases.
 
Wild Dagga: 10%
(Leonotis leonurus)
The Dagga is most often found in South Africa, and it produces beautiful orange flowers that can be used in different ways for medicinal purposes. It is a very large plant that can grow to a height of 2 meters. It is a member of the Mint family and most of its healing properties come from its leaves, which can be used in the same way as those of the Mint in order to make tea. In some cases oil is made from the flowers of the plant, which is also highly concentrated in healthy minerals. It can help with pain relief, blood circulation and the benefit of the overall body’s health.
 
Blue Lotus: 5%
(Nymphaea Caerulea)
The abundant white flowers of the Blue Lotus are a native flower to the edges of the Nile and have symbolized spiritual enlightenment for thousands of years. One of its most popular uses was that of an aphrodisiac, something which it is still known for today when purchased in the adequate form and amount. The petals can be submerged in win for a few hours, which create an exotic tasting liquid that helps relieve stress. The flowers can also be placed in boiled water to make tea, which helps with blood circulation and can also improve concentration. The Blue Lotus is not an addictive plant and can be used freely because it has very mild effects on the body.
 
White Lotus: 5%
(Nelumbo nucifera)
This is one of the most often used medicinal plants on the planet, and it is also known as just the Lotus. It is an aquatic plant that grows just as well in both the wild and on private plantations of the Lotus. It has many healing properties which are especially evident when the flowers of the plant are eaten raw. Its roots can be either boiled or deep fried, and they are especially popular as a daily snack in Asia. Tea can be made at home by placing the flower or leaves of the Lotus in hot water. It is a popular detox agent and can also enhance sexual vigour.
Sakae Naa: 5%
(Combretum quadrangulare)
Very little is known about this medicinal herb, but there are still many of its properties available for use by both researchers and patients all over the world. Because this is a member of the family of trees, it is very difficult to more around and distribute to other areas of the world, which is why it is so hard to get a hold of it. The leaves are usually chewed raw and kept in the mouth for as long as possible so that they can be absorbed by the soft tissue. The oil can be added to food and drinks and taken on a regular basis. The Sakae Naa helps as a pain relief and also as a way to keep you energized. It has similar effects to coffee, but without the added dehydration.
Wild Passion Flower: 5%
(Passiflora foetida)
Also known as the Bush Passion Fruit, this is a plant that is easily found in different places around the USA and the rest of world, especially Mexico and the Caribbean islands. It is a type of creeping vine because it stretches over very large areas that also include forest trees. The leaves of this plant cannot be consumed in their raw state because they have toxic properties that make them mildly poisonous to humans. However, if they are cooked and processed the poison is removed. Depending on which part of the plant is used, it can help reduce stress, improve concentration, detox your body and help athletes and those who are very active to reduce muscle pain.


All information is directly from Lotus-Extracts.com (where we get our products from), unless otherwise noted.
