Introduction to Customer Service
Customer service is roughly defined as – the act of taking care of a customer’s needs.  We aim to do so by providing and delivering, quality, professional assistance, before, during, and after meeting the customer’s needs.  Here are a few key points to make sure you are providing the best service to our customers.  
Greeting –
        This can be considered just as important as the upsell.  Customers are to be greeted within 10 seconds of entering. When anyone enters our store, it is expected, that they are warmly greeted.  This includes anything from, “Hey, how ya doing?” to eye contact, with a smile and nod, if you happen to be with another customer.  Every customer must be acknowledged upon their entrance, promptness is key.  The preferred greeting is a combination of all of the above.  It is also extremely important to be aware of the impression you are giving to the customer.  Body language, facial expression, and overall appearance speak volumes.  While on your shift it is expected that all customers are pleasantly greeted with warm expression, and that no employee is utilizing the counters, fixtures, or walls, for support.  (you got time to lean, you got time to clean!) It is also preferred that, unless working to hand product to customers or ring up a transaction, you be on the sales floor.   Shirts are to be clean, and the employee to have a business casual dress.

Expression – visual, verbal, vocal - ways to connect
	Though you may not realize it, expression, as well as body language can make or break a sale.  It is expected, as stated above, that all customers be warmly greeted.  Pleasant expressions, and a general greeting/ small talk, is just one step in the right direction.  Politeness in tone is key, and when possible use personalization to continue to develop relationship selling.  A smile to a stranger, & nodding, especially in the retail environment, immediately opens up a positive exchange during your interaction.  Greeting a customer with your name often gets them to reply with their name and makes it more personal.  (E.g. Hi! I’m Candy! What can I help you find today? Or I’ll be right with you.)  It is important to be aware or your arm placement as well.  Closed or crossed arms can be taken as aggressive, unsure, or lacking.  Maintaining eye contact while utilizing a pleasant tone, will provide the customer with a feeling of respect, and genuine connection (relationship building).  If at times you feel a lack in communication (flow) with a customer, it is advised to bring in another employee to help keep the conversation flowing.  This also can bring new product information into the conversation, and really get that sale to cross the finish line.  
Open Ended Questions –
 These are questions you can’t say yes or no to.  These questions help to develop a relationship with your customer as well as uncover any additional selling options, or needs the customer may have.  Getting to know a customer is also a great time to show them products “just because.”  It could be: new in stock, a complimentary color, new flavor /vendor, or an addition to a product they picked up last time.    what are you here for? What kind of products are you looking for?  


Observe & Offer-  
	There are many customers that will come in, ask questions, giving you all the info you need, and buy everything you offer.  There are also many customers who won’t.  Working under the “head shop” umbrella we still have to overcome some obstacles, and always be cautious of your wording.  There are many customers that walk in arms crossed solely to grab a pipe or e-liquid and run away.  It is important, as well as beneficial to your sales, to be aware these small nonverbal insights a customer is giving you, such as: slight glances to other areas of the store, having their arms crossed, foot placement, and expression.  Often times there can be a tension, or just curiosity, they are carrying.  This is your time to make them feel that much more at home in our store, and ensure that personal connection.  Slight statements or even an off the cuff product testimonial, can bring a customer ease, and often end up in a great upsell and a strong personal connection.  E.g.: A customer buying e-liquid looks just a little too long at the paper wall.  Sales associate: “There’s a ton of things over there! I love RAW organic’s myself.”  In that one statement you can get a grin, an eye roll, or a paper sale.  Either way you have hit a deeper connection with your customer.  
 	You never know!  There are several customers that feel the need to be a little more discreet in disclosing their closed door behaviors.  as well as there are customers that feel as though they know it all!  You never know. If you mention that Rig Set up Raffle to the older man that usually only buys one e-liquid, & you think is kind of uptight, he may just look up with a smile and say, why not.  There is also that guy that knows all about his mod, but he knows nothing about the ability to switch out tanks, or that we sold products to keep his glass super clean.  Being sure to hit all points of 5 steps process, is a way to insure you’re helping the customer, and hitting your goals in the best way possible. 
Sales Tips – 
	When customers come in for any device or herbal it is important to ask them questions so we can better serve them.  It is also a best practice to involve another employee to provide additional information, or experience with the product.   
 If someone is coming in asking for Kratom or an Herbal product it is important to ask them what they are looking to get out of the product.  Do you have pain? Need energy? Have anxiety? Looking to enhance your spiritual connection?  Do you have a problem taking gross tasting powders (maybe they need capsules)? Have you heard something that brings you here? All of these questions will help assure the customer’s needs are fulfilled.  As always, if you are unsure, do not be shy about pulling out the additional information provided for you.  Do you have a gram spoon? 
If someone is coming in for a vaporizer to quit smoking: Congratulate them on taking the first step to quitting smoking cigarettes!!!! GO YOU!!! (*with FDA regulations you cannot talk about any health benefits of vaping or quitting smoking*) How much do you smoke? What kind of cigarettes do you smoke?  How long have you been a smoker?  Do you know anything about vaporizers yet? Are you looking for an all in one (AIO) unit or complete kit?  Have you tried vaping before?  Explain to them the difference in one button devices verses personal control devices.  Relate any personal experiences you may have with them.  Put devices in their hands so they can make a personal connection with the product.  Show them the juice menu.  Have them put the dollar in the bin and try some juices.  Let them know it’s best to get multiple flavors because they can last a while and may get sick of the one flavor all the time.  When a customer is coming in to quit smoking it is best to start them off with a 6mg nicotine, however some folks are inclined to go right to the lower numbers let them know they can get a 6mg and a 3 mg (or a 0) and mix them together to make a custom fit that works for them.  Be sure to have them leave all set – a device, spare coils (mind as well get them now), battery (usually 2 so they are every ready to change it out when it dies), a battery case (to prevent explosion), juice (usually 2 for variety), a battery charger, a case (because you got to carry all this stuff with you and things can fall out of your pocket).  Follow the 5 step selling process.  
If someone is coming in for an herbal vaporizer:  Ask if it is for dry or concentrate?  Have they used any of the products before?  Do they have any knowledge of, or products that they may have been looking at online?  Are you interested in a multi-use product?  Do you know there are products with one button function as well as those with different temperature options?  Let them know about the product that can make concentrate work in their regular vape pen?  Show them a high powered mod and the multiple tanks you can buy to build your own custom device?  Do you want an at home device, or one that travels well? Are you familiar with multiple coil styles? Share knowledge about the various styles of coils, their features and benefits.  When applicable be sure to have the customer leave with those spare coils (do you know where we keep the spare concentrate coils?).  They may also be interested in a carrying case, or different charger.  Be sure to let them know about the Lotus products that are best used in vaporizers as well.  
If someone comes in for a glass water pipe:  would you like it for dry? Concentrate? Both?  Are you aware of all the different features? Recycle? Perks? Ashcatcher? Do you have a style preference? Show other slides that fit to make it more custom.  Let them know we have replacement pieces if something were to break.  You are buying an at home piece, are you aware we have pens to make your smoking devices more portable? Do you need a torch? Check out our cases to keep your new purchase safe!  Let them know about the free carb cap with purchases over $150! 
Thankyou – 
	Everyone that walks through the door, purchasing customer or not, needs to be thanked.  They should also be asked if they are in our customer loyalty program, it takes just a minute and no purchase is necessary.  You can also let them know about the raffle, everyone can buy a ticket, no additional purchase is necessary. Top of Form
Base sales goals – 
Daily sales and contest goals are set to ensure that every customer is being asked all the proper questions.  This also helps you to strengthen your ability to work the up sale and get to know your customer / products. 
Raffle goals are also set daily.  Asking every customer, purchasing or not, if they’d like a chance to WIN!!! Anyone can enter the raffle, there is no purchase necessary.  Approach offering the raffle with words that bring excitement, and set yourself for a positive response.  “Today for $1 you can purchase a chance to WIN (insert grand prize here), how many would you like?”
Confidentiality - 
	Our customers and other parties with whom we do business entrust the company with important information relating to their personal businesses. It is our policy that all information considered confidential will not be disclosed to external parties or to employees without a “need to know.” If an employee questions whether certain information is considered confidential, he/she should first check with his/her immediate supervisor.
	This policy is intended to alert employees to the need for discretion at all times and is not intended to inhibit normal business communications.

Drawer counts - employee set to ring on one drawer with a countdown in between day and evening employees
Merchandising – 
       Early stages of merchandising are basic housekeeping.  Dust, dust everywhere, on everything, all the time.  Just from existing the shelves will get covered in dust daily.  This is a daily to do in down time.  Also in line with this checking out how product is placed on the shelf.  Take the time to see if any detail on a product could be enhanced with a little twist, or even raising or lowering it a shelf. (ask management or senior sales before moving product).  After you have gotten familiar with all the product, or worked during new product stocking, you may notice how product is then placed.  All new product should be given prime real estate (a featured area such as a glass case, or primarily at eye level).  Glass pieces may have to stay with the statement or their brand.  If enough new product of a brand is released you may want to discuss a front case display, or putting that product together and placing it at eye level.  
Introduction to POS
Card swiping - how to clock in/out - log into ringing screen
Search: scan: coupons (discuss media filing as well as manager only authorization at this point)
Customer database - phone number / first and last name/ email – employs a customer loyalty.  It gives the customer the sense of an added value to their purchase, and creates a relationship with them.  Inform them that we have a points program.  It also makes them eligible to receive coupons incentives, special sale pricing, etc.  
Voiding - manager only 
*Media recording - DOUBLE COUNTING OVER $100 / discounting of items / bill checking / bank face / credit & debit card procedures / forms of payment accepted / forms of payment not accepted (i.e. travelers cheques), selecting sales person / cashier, PRICE INQUIRY BUTTON (F5)
Holy Smokes perfers all purchases to be made in cash.  If a customer has a purchase of over $75 we require you ask them to run debit or take the cash out of the ATM by the door.  If you have a customer on the fence about it feel free to ask a member of management about taking the $2 service fee off the total of their purchase to ensure a cash transaction.  

