



New Hire 
Product Handbook



HS Global Inc., 2016


HOLY SMOKES
“Evolving the smoke and vape experience into a legitimate model for growth”
       The team here at Holy Smokes is expected is provide a high quality sales experience, with professional customer service.  We work to redefine the typical smoke shop experience by providing a large array of quality products, in conjunction with a knowledgeable and friendly staff.  
       This Store Operations Manual is set to guide and inform you of expected procedures, policies, and applicable laws.  This manual is not a substitute for individual research and is subject to change without notice.    
State and Federal Laws
Employee Handbook 
Dirty Little Words 
Vape My World
Pipes 101
Hookah
Glossary & Graphs
Kratom
Lotus Extracts
Product Guide 



Language Code
What is Language Code and why is it necessary? Simply put, due to the nature of the products we sell we must make sure to speak about our products in a completely legal way. What we sell is legal, but customers may want to use our products in an illegal way. As a sales person you control the conversation and make sure that customers are falling in line and using the appropriate words. If a customer repeatedly uses inappropriate language after you have asked them to stop, tell them they must leave the store and are not permitted to make any purchases that day.
      Do Not Say			Say Instead
      Bong 				Water Pipe
      Wax, Hash or Oil		Concentrate
Weed, Tree or Bud		Dry Product
  			Tobacco
  			Herbal Product
 			Flower
Keef				Pollen
Bowl				Pipe or
 			Bowl Head
 			Slide 
Whip Its/nitrous		Whip Cream Charger
Cracker			Dispenser
Dime Bags			Apple Bag
 			Coin Bag
Joint				Cigarette
Switchblade 			Spring Assisted Knife
Drug Test			Event	
Brassknuckles			Paperweight
It should go without saying that under no circumstances is it acceptable to talk about “getting high” or any drug related conversations with customers ever. 

REPAIRS AND EXCHANGES – 
Note that this does NOT say returns.  There are signs clearly posted at each register that state “Due to the personal nature of our products, returns are NOT accepted.”  The bottom of ALL of our receipts states this:
ALL SALES ARE FINAL.
Holy Smokes does not accept returns. Exchanges are permitted if the product is unused, unopened and the receipt is within 3 days of purchase date. All exchanges are subject to approval by management. 
Electronics purchased from Holy Smokes are covered by a 30 day warranty. Warranty does NOT cover personal damage. All claims are subject to a troubleshoot inspection which can take up to 48 hours. After 30 days, warranty claims must be made directly to manufacturer. 
NO RECIEPT = NO EXCHANGES/REPAIRS. 

- If a device comes back UNUSED and UNOPENED with receipt, within 3 days of purchase.   The items can be exchanged for something of equal value, or the customer can be given a store credit.   
- If a customer comes in within the 30 days with a device that has a defect AND has the receipt, the device can be put in for one of our techs to take a look at.  This is the trouble shooting stated on the receipt.  This process, as stated, can take up to 48 hours.  
- Any defects over the 30 days are to be directed to the manufacturer’s warranty.  Of course for customer satisifaction purposes, if the customer has their receipt of purchase from here we can gladly put it in for a tech to look at, 48 hour window still applies. 
- if a customer comes in with an unused but opened package of an item they want to return.  We do NOT return, as the sign and receipt state.  We will gladly do an exchange or give store credit.  The item is subject to a 15% restocking fee.  All original included paperwork but be present to due a full exchange.    
- A customer needs to have the receipt AND complete packaging to do any exchange, even if it’s a manufacturer’s defect.  
- Holy Smokes does not cover personal damage or customer misuse of products.   
- “All exchanges are subject to management approval” means, managers must be notified of exchanges before they can be processed.
- 




CLOCK IN / CLOCK OUT / PAYROLL – 
- Employees are to clock in, and out, on time, utilizing the POS time clock. 
- On time means, at the time you are scheduled to start working.  This means your personal belongings have been put away and you are ready to be on the sales floor. Employees are encouraged to arrive 5-15 minutes before their clock in times.  This will ensure you are settled, and ready to work, before you clock in.
- Employees are to arrive in proper dress code.  A fresh Holy Smokes tee, and business casual attire. No Light wash and/or distressed jeans. Dark pants or jeans only. No leggings, yoga pants, cargo pants, shorts or sweatpants. No baggy pants. Skirts/ Dresses must be at least knee length. (Exceptions can be made if leggings are worn)	 
- If at any time you FORGET to clock in or out, do so immediately, then let a manager know.
o CONTACT RICH KRINGE IMMEDIATELY – for any failure to clock in or out.  Failure to do so may result in up to an hour of pay per shift, per missed clock in/ clock out, deducted from your pay.  
o Rich Kringe contact – rich@hsnglobalinc.com    or 215-939-3739   
- Employees are to clock out if they are to leave the store for any extended period of time.  This includes, but no limited to, leaving the store to get food, to eat food, taking additional smoke breaks, etc.  
- Employees are to receive pay bi-weekly on a Tuesday AFTER 2pm.  Employees can arrive after that time to pick up pay from a member of the management team.   
- Any issues with pay can be adjusted through payroll and will be available at the next pay cycle.   
- If you are unable to show up for a scheduled shift pleases call and let management know as soon as possible.  Other than the exception of a doctors or hospital note, a written documentation of the missed shift will be signed and filed at the beginning of the employees next shift.
- If you do not show for a shift, and do not call.  You are eligible for immediate termination, or issued a final written warning, at the discretion of management.  
- ANY SCHEDULE CHANGES MUST BE RUN BY AND APPROVED BY MANAGEMENT FIRST
o Requested dates off must be requested to management at minimum of 2 weeks in advance for approval.  
o Requests are granted on a first come first serve basis.  No more than 3 employees can request off on the same day.  All requests are subject to approval.  
- In the event of a lost paycheck, the CFO must be notified in writing as soon as possible and before a replacement check can be issued. In the event the lost paycheck is recovered, and the company identifies the endorsement as that of the employee, the employee must remit the amount of the replacement check to the company within 24 hours of the time it is demanded.

Phone Procedures – 
- The phone should be answered “Holy Smokes.”  In a pleasant tone.  
- In store customers should receive your complete attention.  Feel free to let the phone go to voice mail.  Customers tend to call back. There are also multiple people can access the line to answer it.  The customer in front of you is your main priority.  
- If you have a customer that is just browsing, or in a situation where you can excuse yourself from conversation to answer the phone, you can do so.  If you are at all talking about a product, or in the middle of a sale, DO NOT LEAVE the customer to answer the phone.
- If the phone call is from:
Solicitors – Say “Please remove us from your list,” and feel free to hang up. 

Existing Vendors – Inform them that they are calling the sales floor / customer service number.  Have them remove the 215-941-8585 number and only utilize the 215-941-6912 number to reach the back line. Direct them to contact the email or other phone number for the person they are looking for.  Existing vendors already have this information.  There is a list of phone numbers and emails in the cabinet next to the register and one in the employee communication book.  
Marketing/ New Vendor calls – Inform them that they are calling the sales floor / customer service line.  State for them to “Remove this number from their list.”  Then advise them to contact the email of the person that they are looking for.  If they ask for additional information inform them that we do not give out any vendor information.  They are welcome to send any info to feedback@holysmokes.biz.  
- We NEVER give out personal emails, or phone numbers.
- If someone has called with a general question about our products, advise them it is best to come into the store.  Give vague information, and remember that language code still applies. 
- If someone is calling about a specific product, you can inform them of that specific information.  
- Always end calls with a thank you! 

Opening Responsibilities – 
	These include but are not limited to: turning on all lights, fans, and monitors (make sure they are all in working order) - turn on OPEN sign and flip wood OPEN sign over -  adjusting thermostat (ask management) -  working on task list.
Closing Responsibilities – 
	These include but are not limited to: turning off all lights, fans, and monitors – turn off OPEN sign and flip over wooden OPEN sign - adjusting thermostat (winter 63 / summer 79) -  vacuuming / sweeping floors -  windexing ALL glass cases – wiping down tasting kiosks – emptying and disposing of trash in ALL trash cans – fill humidor
Daily / Weekly Procedures Outline
Daily tasks – Bi – weekly tasks
*when completing any task on this list please communicate it to any other staff member, as well as note it in the TASK LOG Section of the Employee Communication binder.  
Restocking from drawer to floor – check all backstock that is in the understock drawers on the floor and filling it to its proper place.  This includes: screen spinner – tobacco - $1 tester mouth pieces – hookah accessories – chillums – pipes
Detail windexing – moving items off the shelves and windexing on and below the shelf area.  This also includes detail cleaning of all glass pipes and pieces.  
Dusting – going over the boxes on shelves – bottles of product – window displays – signage
Kitchen – wipe down counters, microwave, fridge – vacuum
Bathroom – wipe down all fixtures, toilet, and mirror – mop floors
Sales Floor – to be mopped bi-weekly – typically on a Monday or Thursday evening
Store Front – windex door and reachable windows (inside and out) – empty cigarette butt container

BREAKAGE POLICY – 
REPORT ALL BREAKAGE TO MANAGEMENT IMMEDIATELY!
Mulligan – your first break is an Oopsie! Everybody gets one!
2nd offense – You are responsible for paying the purchasing cost for that item.  At this point on you may be eligible to pay a small stocking fee.   
3rd offense – You are responsible for paying the retail cost of that item and a 1ST written warning is document is issued.  
Any additional breakage will result in further actions, at the discretion of management.

REGISTER / CASH – 
- Any register shortage that happens during your shift will be deducted from your paycheck.  
- All bills must be run through the bill check machine.
- All larger bills, $50 and above, must be deposited into the lock box under that register.
- All credit cards must be verified by checking the ID of the person using the card.  THE ID AND THE CARD MUST BELONG TO THE SAME PERSON WITH NAMES MATCHING.  Remember the debit conversion.
- All signed credit slips are to be deposited into the lock box for that register.  
- Any purchase of $100 or over (cash) must be verified by another employee.  This double count must be noted in the media book.  List the invoice number, total, and both employees must sign.  
- Holy Smokes does not accept personal checks or travelers cheques.    
PERFORMANCE REVIEWS –
An employee is evaluated, while in training, 30 days and 60 days in.  Additional reviews and feedback are at management discretion.  Employees that remain on staff will be evaluated on a yearly basis.  
Employees are given written documentation in situations where, improvement is needed, store policies and procedures are not being followed, or for promotion /congratulatory situations.  An employee has up to 3 written documents to improve their performance or be eligible for termination.  An employee can be terminated without any written documentation. 
Cell Phone Policy - 
	While at work, it is expected that employees do not use cell phones while on the clock. If the employee has their personal phone on the sales floor, they must keep it on their persons and on vibrate or silent NO EXCEPTIONS. Failure to silence your phone when on the sales floor (without consulting with a supervisor) may result in discipline actions. Any time there is a customer is in the store (whether or not you are assisting them) no phones are allowed to be out. Please make personal calls before/after work or when on breaks off the floor. Again, failure to follow these policies may result in disciplinary action.  
	It is OK for employees to use their cell phones, to gather additional information, which will help a customer.  For example: finding a coil style for a tank, researching flavors for sale juices, etc. 

Background and Reference Checks
	To ensure that individuals who join Holy Smokes are well qualified and to ensure that Holy Smokes maintains a safe and productive work environment, it is our policy to conduct pre-employment background checks on all applicants who accept an offer of employment. Background checks may include verification of any information on the applicant’s resume or application form.
	All offers of employment are conditioned on receipt of a background check report that is acceptable to Holy Smokes. All background checks are conducted in conformity with the Federal Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, and state and federal privacy and antidiscrimination laws. Reports are kept confidential and are only viewed by individuals involved in the hiring process. 
	If information obtained in a background check would lead Holy Smokes to deny employment, a copy of the report will be provided to the applicant, and the applicant will have the opportunity to dispute the report’s accuracy. Background checks may include a criminal record check, although a criminal conviction does not automatically bar an applicant from employment.
	Holy Smokes also reserves the right to conduct a background check for current employees to determine eligibility for promotion or reassignment in the same manner as described above. 
Outside Employment - 
	Employees are permitted to engage in outside work or to hold other jobs, subject to certain restrictions as outlined below. 
	Activities and conduct away from the job must not compete with, conflict with or compromise the company interests or adversely affect job performance and the ability to fulfill all job responsibilities. Employees are prohibited from performing any services for customers on nonworking time that are normally performed by Holy Smokes. This prohibition also extends to the unauthorized use of any company tools or equipment and the unauthorized use or application of any confidential information. In addition, employees are not to solicit or conduct any outside business during paid working time. 
	Employees are cautioned to carefully consider the demands that additional work activity will create before accepting outside employment. Outside employment will not be considered an excuse for poor job performance, absenteeism, tardiness, leaving early, refusal to travel or refusal to work overtime. If Holy Smokes determines that an employee’s outside work interferes with performance, the employee may be asked to terminate the outside employment. 

Elicit Substance Policy - 
	Holy Smokes prohibits all employees from manufacturing, distributing, using, dispensing or possessing an illegal drug in or on company premises or while conducting company business. Employees are also prohibited from misusing legally prescribed or over-the-counter (OTC) drugs. Law enforcement personnel shall be notified, as appropriate, when criminal activity is suspected.

Nepotism, Employment of Relatives and Personal Relationships - 
	Holy Smokes wants to ensure that company practices do not create situations such as conflict of interest or favoritism. This extends to practices that involve employee hiring, promotion and transfer. Close relatives, partners, those in a dating relationship or members of the same household are not permitted to be in positions that have a reporting responsibility to each other. Close relatives are defined as husband, wife, domestic partner, father, mother, father-in-law, mother-in law, grandfather, grandmother, son, son-in-law, daughter, daughter-in law, uncle, aunt, nephew, niece, brother, sister, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, step relatives, cousins and domestic partner relatives. 
	If employees begin a dating relationship or become relatives, partners or members of the same household and if one party is in a supervisory position, that person is required to inform management of the relationship. 
	Holy Smokes reserves the right to apply this policy to situations where there is a conflict or the potential for conflict because of the relationship between employees, even if there is no direct-reporting relationship or authority involved. 

Employee Discount - 
	All employees, after a probationary period, are entitled to a merchandise discount. After joining the sales team, the employee is entitled to a 10% merchandise discount for the first 30 days on staff. After 60 days on staff, the full discount will be rewarded. Holy Smokes Management reserves the right to change the employee discount level based on performance. Employee is entitled up to 25% off on general merchandise and 10% on tobacco products. All discount levels will be approved by upper management. 
Purchase Procedure - 
	In order to closely monitor inventory, upper management are the only employees permitted to cash out employees and employee purchase must be logged in the purchase order book. Employee must pay for the products at time of receipt. See Frank to cash out. If the purchase is urgent and Frank is not available, see John or Craig. Again, there are absolutely no exceptions to this rule.
Separation of Employment - 
Separation of employment within an organization can occur for several different reasons. 
	Resignation: Although we hope your employment with us will be a mutually rewarding experience, we understand that varying circumstances cause employees to voluntarily resign employment. Resigning employees are encouraged to provide two weeks’ notice, preferably in writing, to facilitate a smooth transition out of the company. Management reserves the right to provide an employee with two weeks’ pay in lieu of notice in situations where job or business needs warrant such action. If an employee provides less notice than requested, the employer may deem the individual to be ineligible for rehire depending on the circumstances regarding the notice given.
	Job abandonment: Employees who fail to report to work or contact their supervisor for three (3) consecutive workdays shall be considered to have abandoned the job without notice, effective at the end of their normal shift on the third day. The supervisor shall notify upper management at the expiration of the third workday and initiate the paperwork to terminate the employee. Employees who are separated due to job abandonment are ineligible to receive accrued benefits and are ineligible for rehire.
	Termination: Holy Smokes staff are employed on an at-will basis, and the company retains the right to terminate an employee at any time, as per Pennsylvania state law.  

       If a new employee separates employment within the first two weeks on staff, management reserves the right to pay them a training rate of $7.25/hour.

The separating employee must return all company property at the time of separation, including keys, PCs and identification cards. Failure to return some items may result in deductions from the final paycheck. An employee will be required to sign the Wage Deduction Authorization Agreement to deduct the costs of such items from the final paycheck.
Progressive Discipline - 
	Every employee has the duty and the responsibility to be aware of and abide by existing rules and policies. Employees also have the responsibility to perform his/her duties to the best of his/her ability and to the standards as set forth in his/her job description or as otherwise established. 
	Holy Smokes supports the use of progressive discipline to address issues such as poor work performance or misconduct. Our progressive discipline policy is designed to provide a corrective action process to improve and prevent a recurrence of undesirable behavior and/or performance issues. Our progressive discipline policy has been designed consistent with our company values and employment laws. 
	Outlined below are the steps of our progressive discipline policy and procedure. Holy Smokes reserves the right to combine or skip steps in this process depending on the facts of each situation and the nature of the offense. The level of disciplinary intervention may also vary. Some of the factors that will be considered are whether the offense is repeated despite coaching, counseling and/or training; the employee's work record; and the impact the conduct and performance issues have on our company.  The following outlines Holy Smokes progressive discipline process: 
	Verbal warning: A supervisor verbally counsels an employee about an issue of concern, and a written record of the discussion is placed in the employee's file for future reference. 
	Written warning (First or Final): Written warnings are used for behavior or violations that a supervisor considers serious, or in situations when a verbal warning has not helped change the behavior. Written and signed warnings are placed in an employee’s personnel file. Employees should recognize the grave nature of the written warning. 
	Probation: Whenever an employee has been involved in a disciplinary situation that has not been readily resolved or when he/she has demonstrated an inability to perform assigned work responsibilities efficiently, the employee may be given a final warning or placed on probation. Probation status will last for a predetermined amount of time not to exceed 90 days and will be accompanied by a written guideline for improvements. Within this time period, the employee must demonstrate a willingness and ability to meet and maintain the conduct and/or work requirements as specified by the supervisor and the company. At the end of the probation period, the performance improvement plan may be closed or, if established goals are not met, termination may occur. 
	Holy Smokes reserves the right to determine the appropriate level of discipline for any inappropriate conduct, including oral and written warnings, suspension with or without pay, demotion and termination. 


Employee Handbook Acknowledgment and Receipt
I have received my copy of the Employee Handbook.

The employee handbook describes important information about Holy Smokes, and I understand that I should consult my manager regarding any questions not answered in the handbook. I have entered into my employment relationship with Holy Smokes voluntarily and acknowledge that there is no specified length of employment. Accordingly Holy Smokes can terminate the relationship at will, with or without cause, at any time, so long as there is not violation of applicable federal or state law.

This handbook and the policies and procedures contained herein supersede any and all prior practices, oral or written representations, or statements regarding the terms and conditions of my employment with Holy Smokes. By distributing this handbook, the company expressly revokes any and all previous policies and procedures that are inconsistent with those contained herein.

I understand that, except for employment-at-will status, any and all policies and practices may be changed at any time by Holy Smokes, and the company reserves the right to change my hours, wages and working conditions at any time. All such changes will be communicated through official notices, and I understand that revised information may supersede, modify or eliminate existing policies. Only the owners of Holy Smokes has the ability to adopt any revisions to the policies in this handbook.

I understand and agree that nothing in the Employee Handbook creates, or is intended to create, a promise or representation of continued employment and that employment at Holy Smokes is employment at will, which may be terminated at the will of either Holy Smokes or myself. Furthermore, I acknowledge that this handbook is neither a contract of employment nor a legal document. I understand and agree that employment and compensation may be terminated with or without cause and with or without notice at any time by Holy Smokes or myself. 

I have received the handbook, and I understand that it is my responsibility to read and comply with the policies contained in this handbook and any revisions made to it.



___________________________________________		_________________
Employee Signature						Date


___________________________________________	
Employee Name Printed 


__________________________________________		_________________
Supervisor Name Printed 						Date	
 
























				
