Introduction to product - 
E-Cigs vs. Vaping
E-Cigs - mass marketed "analog" vapor/ cigs - these tend to be made by tobacco companies like Imperial Tobacco and RJ Reynolds, and tend to use pre filled disposable cartridges. Available at gas stations, and convenience stores.  Vape stores don’t sell these.
VAPE -
What is vaping?  The definition of vaping is - to inhale water vapor into lungs.  Vaping is the act of inhaling a vapor through a personal vaporizer device.  You may think this is new but the first patent for an electronic cigarette was actually filed in 1963 by Herbert Gilbert.  The phenonium of vaping today is usually credited to Hon Lik.  In 2003, he introduced his version of the e-cig that he created after his father passed of lung cancer from smoking.  
Vape pens, in some parts, are also called HOOKAH PENS.  If you have a customer coming in for a “hookah pen”, explain to them the hookah pens you see online are lesser powered (mainly meant to be) disposable items.  By purchasing a vape kit or a mod, they can do the same thing with better flavor and clouds, zero nicotine is readily available.  It can also be a best practice to just have them try some of the samples on the floor, so they can get a better understanding of what you are saying.
- The Science Of It All - 
Voltage - specifies the amount of energy in a device - higher voltage means the same amount of charge would gain more energy compared to a lower charge.  
Current - amount of charge flowing through a surface - current is measured in AMPS (current= voltage over resistance)
Resistance - amount of friction there is for the electricity on its way to a circuit.  Resistance is measured in OHMS.
Wattage - amount of work done in a unit of time (charge x voltage divided by time).  Setting your device in Wattage mode is similar to hitting the accelerator while driving.  It applied that same force to drive the temperature up.  
Devices set using wattage should use Kanthal or Nichrome wire coils.
APV - advanced personal vapors
Sub OHM - using a coil less than 1.0 OHM
Temperature control - specifically uses Nickel or Titanium wire coils.  These devices tend to have lower battery usage, and extended coils life.  Setting the device to temperature control is similar to setting your car to cruise control.  Once you select your temperature the device does all the work to maintain that temperature.
Priming - whenever you are replacing the coil in your device you need to prime it.  If the coil is not properly primed you can "burn" it, causing a taste no one wants and needing another new coil.  To prime you coil apply a drop of e-juice onto the visible areas of cotton on the coil.  Than replace the coil into the tank.  At this point, depending on the person, you can have the device sit and the coil's cotton will naturally soak in the juice.  It is recommended that single and dual coils sit for 10 minutes, while sub ohm coils need only sit for a few minutes as they have more open areas.  At this point the customer can move directly into vaping, or as most people tend to do, take a couple dry pulls (see below).
Dry pulls - with the air flow closed, and being sure not to fire your device.  Take a few pulls or "hits".  This forces the juice into the coils causing it to saturate.  One may not need to do this to the point of tasting the juice, though this may happen, other than the taste it causes no harm.  
charging (battery vs. usb) - firmware updates through company
COILS - unit specific - store spread sheet - styles - difference in each unit - temp. vs. watt. -  nickel titanium work best in TC mode 
Rebuildables - yep - YouTube assistance

E-Liquid
What’s In E-Liquid? E-liquids do NOT contain Diethylene Glycol.  This is one of the main ingredients in antifreeze.  This HAS been found in mass marketed e-cig products.  

Propylene Glycol (PG) 
PG - this is the main ingredient in albuterol (asthma inhalers) and is completely safe to inhale when vaporized.  
If you’ve ever used an inhaler, or known someone who has used one, then you’re already familiar with propylene glycol (referred to as PG). PG is the non-medical suspension agent used in inhalers.  PG is a very thin liquid with a low viscosity. It’s an organic compound that’s colorless, virtually tasteless; it’s used as a preservative and can be found in a lot of FDA approved oral and topical medications. And don’t worry, there’s no evidence of PG being carcinogenic, so you can feel safe vaping it.
Vegetable Glycerin (VG) 
Vegetable Glycerin (referred to as VG), is a thicker liquid with a high viscosity. It’s an organic compound commonly used in foods (as a sweetening agent), medications, soaps, and cosmetic products. If you use soap or have eaten food containing corn syrup, you’ve already had some interactions with VG. 
VG/PG Ratio
Choosing an e-liquid depends on the unit you’ll be using and personal preferences.
Different E Cig Setup Requirements
* Sub-Ohm Tanks, RTAs, and RDAs are pretty flexible and will probably work with any PG/VG ratio that you choose. There aren’t any limitations, so your choice will boil down to personal preference.
* Clearomizers (last generation non Sub-Ohm tanks) use high ohm coil and required low power. They function best with liquids that are 100% PG to 60/40 VG/PG. Thicker liquid takes longer to wick and can cause the coil to burn out quickly 
Personal Preference 
So now that you know about any vape mod limitations, let’s look into the other factors that will weigh into your decision. These are some of the questions you can ask your customer. 
* Are you more interested in flavor or vapor production? 
* Are you looking for a stronger or smoother throat hit? 
* What wattage do you usually vape at? 
* Do you have any PG sensitivities?
Vapor and Flavor
100% VG will give you big, billowing clouds of vapor, but might mute the flavor, making it less intense for your taste-buds. 100% PG concentration will give you better flavor, but the clouds will be less voluptuous and it will deliver a harsher throat hit.  If you’re looking for a balance between the two, you’ll probably want a mixture of both. Remember, more PG = more flavor more throat hit, and more VG = bigger clouds and less throat hit.
Throat-Hit (or Lack Thereof)
If your customer is missing that punch to the back of their throat that cigarettes used to give you, you might want to get a higher PG concentration since VG tends to vape extremely smooth. PG helps deliver that oh so familiar throat-hit and might help stave off those pesky cigarette cravings. However, if you’re looking for a something very smooth, you’ll probably want a higher ratio of VG. If you’re looking for a balance between the two, choose a mixture of both.
Turning up the Wattage/Voltage
If you’re looking to really turn up the dial on your volts or watts, VG has a higher resistance to heat, so it handles well at high wattage/voltage. PG is a bit more sensitive to heat, so the taste of higher PG based liquids might taste burned if you’re vaping at higher volts/watts.
Allergies and Sensitivities
FLAVORING - all flavoring in e-juices are food grade
A small segment of the vaping population are allergic and/or have a sensitivity to PG. It’s common to have a sore throat and cough a little when you first start vaping, but if your symptoms persist and are more severe (sore or swollen mouth, gums, and/or back of throat), you might want to consider moving to a 80-100% VG e juice. If you need to move to a 100% VG e juice, but your set up requires thinner e juice, you can cut the VG with some distilled water, (if you add the distilled water yourself, this will reduce the concentration of flavor in your e liquid).
Adding it Up
Propylene Glycol and Vegetable Glycerin are both perfectly safe substances that are used every day. Now that you know the differences between PG and VG, all you and your customer have to do is decide what they want out of their vaping experience. Figure out the limitations (if any) of the mod. Decide if you want more flavor and throat hit (more PG) or more vapor less throat hit (VG). If you want to feel the vapor hit the back of your throat like a ton of bricks, use more PG. If you want a smoother experience, use more VG. If you like to vape at higher volts/watts, use more VG. If you vape at lower temperatures, use more PG. And finally, if you’re allergic, or sensitive, to PG, do yourself a favor and use either 100% VG, or use VG that’s been cut with some distilled water.
Mods & E-Cigarettes
Choosing the Best Mod for Your Customer
Things to consider:
 	• Size
 	• Battery Type
 	• Power
 	• Safety
Battery Type
Built in battery or removable battery. What’s the difference and benefits of each?

Built-in batteries are just that. They are a power source that is built directly into the unit, meaning that the unit will need to be directly plugged into a power source to charge.

The most common removable battery used in vaping is the 18650 battery. There are different options for 18650 batteries, but for vaping, they are going to need batteries with a 20amp continuous rating (meaning they will be safe pulling up to 20amps worth of current continuously). 
Many devices are now coming out utilizing one 18650battery and feature a micro-USB charging port. Unfortunately, most mods do not have safe USB charging for devices that require multiple 18650 batteries, so a separate charger is required. Units that require multiple 18650 batteries, they will be able to reach higher power levels while doubling their battery life. 
Built-In Batteries:
PROS:
 • Convenient USB Charging.
 • No need for an external charger.
 • Can achieve higher power levels maintaining a smaller form.
CONS:
 • Without access to a USB charging outlet, you cannot vape
 • Will need to be plugged in overnight or for long periods of time during the day
 • Once the batteries have reached their lifespan, the entire mod will need to be replaced
   
   
Removable Batteries:
PROS:
• Do not need to be charged via a wall charger, but most can be. 
• Can charge extra back up batteries while using your device
• Ability to switch out batteries (not the whole mod) once they reach their lifespan
CONS:
• Greater Initial cost of purchasing a charger and batteries
• Will probably need to carry extra batteries (always in a protective container!) 
• Size increases greatly when accommodating higher power levels
Power
Every mod you will see will have a regular power mode measured in watts, but many also have temperature control. It is important to note that temperature control is an extra feature, and any mod that uses temperature control is also capable of regular power (aka wattage) mode. 
Currently, the highest powered devices reach 300 watts, but it is not common for most to vape at this high power level. If they only wish to use 60 watts of power, it still may not be a bad idea to purchase a device capable of higher power output. One of the key factors is battery life. Generally higher power leads to lower battery life. So, if they purchase a single 18650 device that goes up to 60 watts, they may need to charge far more often than if they had purchased a dual 18650 mod that goes up to 150 watts, even if they are not utilizing the 150 watts of potential power output. Purchasing a higher powered device allows them to experiment with different power levels to find what works best for them, since they have such a large range, and to be clear, a box mod that goes up to 200 watts will perform just as well at 12 watts as a pen-type battery that goes up to 12 watts, so you would not be sacrificing anything. 
Temperature Control
We won’t go too deep into temperature control mode but here are the basics. You need different types of coils to use temperature control.  Titanium and nickel work best. Temperature control offers additional customization beyond what normal power mode can offer, but it may also be more difficult to find the best vape style for them in temperature control since you can control extra variables.
Battery Safety
These high drain batteries can be dangerous if handled incorrectly. These cells are not your typical AA or AAA battery, they are more powerful, making it relatively easy to have a dangerous issue if proper care isn’t taken.
Do:
• Monitor your batteries while they charge and use a charger that cuts off charging when fully charged.
• Always carry batteries in a protective battery case or silicone enclosure. This will prevent explosions in pockets and purses.
• Replace or battery once its wrapper has been damaged or ripped.
• If a device requires more than 1 battery make sure that you marry them. Charge them and discharge them together, never use batteries that aren’t drained evenly.
Don’t:
• Never place loose batteries in a pocket or purse with loose change or keys. It’s a recipe for disaster.
• Exercise caution when using batteries that are not made by the following companies: LG, Sony, Samsung, or Panasonic. All other batteries are rewraps that didn’t pass quality control. 
• Never use batteries with the word “Fire” in their name. They are flashlight batteries.
Sub-Ohm Vaping 
What is Sub-Ohm Vaping?
Simply put it is vaping on a device whose atomizer (tank) coils have a resistance of less than one ohm. Vapers use sub-ohm tanks is to increase the power output of a device to create more vapor or flavor.  
Is Sub-Ohm Vaping Dangerous?
The answer is mostly no. When basic safety rules are followed sub-ohm vaping is quite safe. If these safety rules are not followed your battery or device can fail resulting in injury or property damage from fire or explosion.
E-liquid and Sub-Ohm Vaping
When vaping with a sub-ohm coil a substantial amount of vapor is produced compared to using coils above 1ohm on the same device. Those who vape sub-ohm usually favor e-liquid with a higher percentage of vegetable glycerin than propylene glycol. Vegetable glycerin creates larger clouds and denser vapor production and it has reduced throat hit compared to PG, which helps to accommodate for the increased amount of vapor inhaled. Usually those vaping sub-ohm will also use lower nicotine strengths (typically 6mg/ml and under) compare to those vaping above 1ohm also because of the additional vapor produced and nicotine inhaled each pull.
Tanks
SubTanks
Subtanks, or Sub Ohm tanks use an atomizer (or coil) that has a resistance below 1 ohm. Since these tanks are credited for their immense vapor production, they also use far more e-liquid when compared to regular tanks. A regular tank when fully filled will last much longer than a sub ohm tank. Sub ohms have adjustable airflows but work best with the airflow hole wide-open. 
RDAs and RTAs
These are tanks that feature rebuildable atomizers and used by advanced vapers to use high powered, custom built coils, that allow extreme cloud production and flavor. RDA stands for Rebuildable Dripping Atomizer, while RTA stands for Rebuildable Tank Atomizer. RDAs and RTAs require hand made coils. Building coils takes knowledge of Ohm’s Law and Battery Safety before someone can safely move into these advanced atomizers. RDAs require the user to Drip e-juice directly on the coils and cotton. Usually they will receive 3-6 good hits before they have to remoisten the cotton and coils with juice. RTAs are a bit different and enable the user to house the coils in a chamber and allows the user to fill a tank and vape without having to re-drip every so often. Both of these devices are for advanced vapers only
Clearomizers (Basic Tanks)
Any coil 1.0 ohm and higher is considered to be regular resistance vaping. Regular tanks are a common option that most vapers start off with. Regular tanks are perfect for any vaper. These can be easily used by any first time or beginner vaper since they aren’t considered as complex. These tanks have a wick that prevents build up and a tight draw atomizer (coil). They are the perfect choice for everyday use. Regular tanks produce a much smaller quantity of vape clouds than sub ohm tanks and flavor can be very muted. These come in a much smaller size than sub ohms (even the mini sub ohms).
Unlike the sub ohm, these tanks go through less liquid. Since you’ll go through less e-liquid, you will also save money along the way. You won’t have to fill up your tank as often either. It can be a hassle when you have to constantly refill your tank. These tanks are different than the sub ohms because they allow for a different hit. These tanks are great for anyone that enjoys high nicotine too, since they don’t produce as much smoke they aren’t overpowering.




OHM’S LAW – CURRENT ( I ) VOLTAGE ( E ) RESISTANCE (R )
